Here we go again.

Thank you.

That's for sure.

Yeah. Yeah, and he was born on May the fourth.

Yeah.

Yes, exactly.

Hopefully. I sure hope so.

Yes.

First of all, my partner is the one that actually mostly came up with the name.

Yeah, yeah. She's great at names. I mean it's just X, the letter X, and then the ae is like pronounced ash. Yeah, and then eight, 12 is my contribution.

Archangel 12, the precursor to the SR71. Coolest plane ever. True.

Yeah, yeah, yeah.

The SR71 came from a CIA program called Archangel. It's the Archangel project.

Yeah.

Yeah.

It's pretty great.

Actually, I think it's better being older and having a kid. I appreciate it more. Yeah, babies are awesome.

They're awesome. Yeah.

Yeah, little love bugs.

Yeah.

Yeah. Great. Wonderful. It's great. But babies are awesome. Yeah, it's great. Yeah. Also, I've spent a lot of time on AI and neural nets and so you can sort of see the brain develop, which is ... An AI neural net is trying to simulate what a brain does, basically. You can sort of see it learning very quickly. You know, it's just wow.

I'm talking about an actual baby.

Yes, but the word neural net comes from the brain. It's like a net of neurons. Humans are the original gangster of the neural net.

Yeah.

In a lot of ways. There's some ways that are different. An analogy that's often used is like we don't make a submarine swim like a fish, but we take the principles of hydrodynamics and apply them to the submarine.

I mean, the essential elements of an AI neural net are really very similar to a human brain neural net. Yeah. It's having the multiple layers of neurons and you know, back propagation. All these things are what your brain does. You have a layer of neurons that goes through a series of intermediate steps to ultimately cognition and then it'll reverse those steps and go back and forth and go all over the place. It's interesting. Very interesting.

Like I said, there are elements that are the same but just like an aircraft does not fly like a bird.

It doesn't flap its wings, but the wings, the way the wings work and generate lift is the same as a bird.

I'm slightly sad about it, actually.

I think possessions kind of weigh you down and they're kind of an attack vector. They'll say, "Hey, billionaire, you've got all this stuff." Well, now I don't have stuff now what are you going to do?

Yeah.

Yeah.

No, I said like almost everything, so it's like ...

Kind of have to, to test product and stuff. You know, there's things that have sentimental value for sure are keeping those.

I mean, what's the worst that could happen? I mean, you're fine.

I suppose so.

For sure. I mean not everyone, but for sure in recent years billionaire has become pejorative like that's a bad thing. Which I think doesn't make a lot of sense in most cases. If you basically organized a company ... How does this wealth arise? If you organize people in a better way to produce products and services that are better than what existed before and you have some ownership in that company then that essentially gives you the right to allocate more capital.

There's a conflation of consumption and capital allocation. Take Warren Buffet, for example, and to be totally frank I'm not his biggest fan, but you know, he does like have full allocation and he reads a lot of annual reports of companies and all the accounting and it's pretty boring really. He's trying to figure out does Coke or Pepsi deserve more capital? I mean it's kind of a boring job if you ask me.

It's still a thing that's important to figure out. Like, which is a company deserving of more or less capital. Should that company grow or expand? Is it making products and services that are better than others or worse? If a company is making compelling products and services, it should get more capital and if it's not, it should get less or go out of business.

Yeah, for sure. I think it's really, I do think there, in the United States especially, there's an over allocation of talent in finance and law. Basically, too many smart people go into finance and law. This is both a compliment and a criticism. We should have, I think, fewer people doing law and fewer people doing finance and more people making stuff.

Yeah.

Yeah, yeah, absolutely. Manufacturing used to be highly valued in the United States and these days it's not. It's often looked down upon, which I think is wrong.

Yes. Somebody's got to do the real work.

You know? Making a car, it's an honest days living, that's for sure. Making anything, really, or providing a valuable service like providing good entertainment, good information, these are all valuable things to do. Yeah, there should be more of it.

Yeah, I've been thinking about it for a while. You know, part of it is like I have a bunch of houses, but I don't spend a lot of time in most of them. That doesn't seem like a good use of assets. Somebody could probably be enjoying those houses and get better use of them me.

I do.

It's awesome.

Yes. It's exactly what you'd expect.

Yeah, that's a requirement.

Yeah.

Yeah, it'll probably sell for less, but still I don't care.

And it's there.

It's a real quirky house, yeah.

I mean, all the cabinets are like handmade and they're like odd shapes and there's like doors to nowhere and strange corridors and tunnels and odd paintings on the wall. Yeah.

It's very quirky. I did live in it briefly, yeah.

Well, I had one house and the Gene Wilder house is right across the road from me from my main house. It was going to get sold and then torn down and turned into, you know, be a big construction zone for three years. I was like, whoa, I think I'll buy it and preserve the spirit of Gene Wilder and not have a giant construction zone. Then I started having some privacy issues where people would just come to my house and start climbing over the walls and stuff. I'm like, man ...

Then I sort of bought some of the houses around my house and then I thought at one point, well you know, it'd be cool to build a house. I acquired some properties at the top of Somera Road, which has got a great view, and I was like, okay, well there's a bunch of sort of small older houses, they're going to get torn down, anyway. I was like, well, if I collect these little houses then I can build something, I don't know, artistic like a dream house type of thing.

Yeah, definitely. Yeah. You got to have the dome that opens up with the stealth helicopter and that kind of thing, you know?

For sure.

Definitely. But then I was like, man, does it really make sense for me to spend time designing and building a house and I'd be real, you know, ghetto like OCD on the little details and the design, or should I be allocating that time to getting us to Mars? I should probably do the latter. Like what's more important? Mars or a house? I'm like Mars. Okay.

Yeah, yeah, definitely. I mean, you can only do so many things.

Right, so how are you going to [crosstalk]

Well, I think I do have high productivity, but even with that there's still some opportunity to [inaudible] time and allocating time to building a house, even if it was a really great house, it still is not a good use of time relative to developing the rockets necessary to get us to Mars and helping solve sustainable energy. SpaceX and Tesla are by far, you know, the most amount of brain cycles. The Boring Company does not take, you know, it's like less than 1% of brain cycles. Then this neural link, which is, I don't know, maybe it's like 5% and then ...

It's a good chunk. Yeah, yeah.

No, we're not testing on people yet, but I think it won't be too long. I think we may be able to implant a neural link in less than a year in a person I think.

It's a very low potential for rejection. I mean, you can think of it like people put in heart monitors and things for epileptic seizures and deep brain stimulation obviously like artificial hips and knees and that kind of thing. The probability of, I mean, so it's well known what will cause rejection and what will not. It's definitely harder when you've got something that is sort of reading and writing neurons that's generating a current pulse and reading current pulses. That's a little harder than say a passive device, but it's still very doable. There are people who have primitive devices in their brains right now.

Well, like deep brain stimulation, I think for Parkinson's, has really changed people's lives in a big way, which is kind of remarkable because it kind of like zaps your brain. It's like kicking the TV type of thing. You think like man, kicking the TV shouldn't work.

Yeah, yeah.

It did.

For sure. Yeah.

Yeah, so this deep brain stimulation implanted devices in the brain have changed people's lives for the better like fundamentally.

Oh yeah, sure, sure.

Well, for version one of the device, it would be it basically implanted in your skull. It would be flush with your skull, so you basically take out a chunk of skull, put the Neuralink device in there. You'd insert the electrode threads very carefully into the brain and then you stitch it up and you wouldn't even know that somebody has it. It can interface basically anywhere in your brain. It could be something that helps cure say eyesight, like returns your eyesight even if you've lost your optic nerve type of thing.

Yeah, yeah, absolutely. I mean, pretty much anything that it could, in principle, fix almost anything that is wrong with the brain. It could restore limb functionality, so if you've got an interface into the motor cortex and then an implant that's like a microcontroller and near muscle groups, you could then create sort of a neural shunt that restores somebody who is a quadriplegic to full functionality. Like they can walk around and be normal.

Yeah, maybe slightly better.

Over time, yes.

Like the, you know, $6 million man. Although these days that doesn't sound like much.

Yeah. Yeah.

Yeah.

Well, yeah, the device we're working on right now is about, it's about an inch in diameter. Your skull is pretty thick, by the way.

It might actually, literally, I mean if you're a big guy, your skull is actually fairly thick. A skull is like seven to 14 millimeters.

A half inch. Half inch thick skull ish. Yeah, yeah, that's a fair bit of like ... We've got quite a coconut going on there. It's not like some eggshell.

Yeah, you basically implant the device.

Yeah, think like a smartwatch or something like that.

Yeah.

No, but I'd like to.

Yeah, and you replace that say one inch diameter piece of skull with the Neuralink device and that has a battery and a Bluetooth and an inductive charger. Then you also insert the electrodes. The electrodes are very carefully inserted with a robot that we developed. It's very carefully putting in the electrodes and avoiding any veins or arteries so it doesn't create trauma.

Like tiny wires, basically.

Tiny wires.

No, you literally put them where they're supposed to go.

Yeah, you insert ...

I mean, they usually go in like, depending on where it is, like two or three millimeters.

Yeah.

Then you put the device in and that replaces the little piece of skull that was taken out. Then you stitch up the hole and they just look like a little scar and that's it.

Yeah.

Yeah, you can totally take it out.

Yeah, I mean you could for sure, I mean, basically it's a generalized sort of thing for fixing any kind of brain injury in principle, or if you've got like severe epilepsy or something like that. It could just sort of stop the epilepsy from occurring. It could detect it in real time and then fire a counter pulse and stop the epilepsy. I mean, there's a whole range of brain injuries. Like if somebody gets a stroke, they could lose the ability to speak and that could also be fixed. If you've got like stroke damage or you lose say muscle control over part of your face or something like that. When you get older you tend to, if you've got like Alzheimer's or something like that, then you lose memory and this could help you with restoring your memory and that kind of thing.

Yeah.

The thing is it's like a bunch of circuits and there's some circuits that are broken and we can fix those circuits. It's a substitute for those circuits.

Yeah.

Yeah. I mean, there's still a lot of work to do. When I say we've got a shot at probably putting in a person within a year, that's exactly what I mean. I think we have a chance of putting it into one and having them be healthy and restoring some functionality that they've lost.

I mean, ultimately if you want to go with full AI symbiosis, you'll probably want to do something like that.

It's optional.

Yeah.

Yes.

You wouldn't need to talk.

Yeah, I think this is one of the paths to think like what are ... Like AI is getting better and better. Now let's assume it's sort of like a benign AI scenario. Even in a benign scenario, we're kind of left behind. We're not along for the ride. We're just too dumb.

How do you go along for the ride? It's like you can't beat them, join them. We're already a cyborg to some degree, right? Cause you've got your phone, you've got your laptop.

Yeah, yeah. Your electronic devices.

Today, if you don't bring your phone along it's like you have missing limb syndrome. It feels like something's really missing. We're already partly a cyborg or an AI symbiote, essentially it's just that the data rate to the electronics is slow. Especially output, like you're just going with your thumbs. I mean like what's your data rate? Optimistically, a hundred bits per second. That's being generous.

Now the computer can communicate at like a hundred terabytes. Certainly, you know, gigabits are trivial at this point. This is like, yeah, basically your computer could do things a million times faster. At a certain point it's like talking to a tree. Okay? It's just boring. You talk to a tree it's not very entertaining. If you can solve the data rate issue and you're especially output input, too, then you can improve the symbiosis that is already occurring between man and machine.

Exactly, so when you ... Like what happens when you, let's say you've got some complex idea that you're trying to convey to somebody else and how do you do that? Well, your brain spends a lot of effort compressing a complex concept into words and there's a lot of loss, information loss that occurs when compressing a complex concept into words. Then you say those words and those words are then interpreted, then they're decompressed by the person who is listening. They will, at best, get a very incomplete understanding of what you're trying to convey. It's very difficult to convey a complex concept with precision because you've got compression, decompression, you may not even have heard all the words correctly and so communication is difficult. What we have here is a failure to communicate. Cool add Luke.

Yeah, great on.

Sarcasm is difficult.

Yeah.

Yes.

You can still do it for sentimental reasons.

Yeah, exactly. You don't need campfire. Don't need to roast marshmallows to have fun.

So, yeah, I think you would, in principle you would be able to communicate very quickly and with far more precision ideas and language would, I'm not sure what would happen to language. You could probably in a situation like this, you would be able to just, it'd be kind of like the matrix. You want to speak a different language. No problem.

Just download the program.

Sure.

Yeah.

Well the first few iterations are, what I'm talking about is in the limit over time, with a lot of development. The first few iterations really in the first few versions all we're going to be trying to do is solve brain injuries. So, don't worry. It's not going to sneak up on you. This will take awhile.

If the development continues to accelerate then maybe five years. Five to 10 years.

That's the best case scenario.

Best case scenario, but 10 years is more like it.

You could also save state.

Save your brain state like a saved game in a video game.

Well, hopefully a little better than that. But, yeah.

From a [inaudible] perspective probably. But yeah, I mean you could save state and restore that state into a biological being if you wanted to in the future in principle, nothing from a physics standpoint that prevents us. Now, you'd be a little different, but then you're also a little different when you wake up in the morning from yesterday and you're a little different. In fact, if you say like you five years ago versus you today is quite a big difference.

So you'd be substantially you. I mean you'd certainly think you're you.

I mean the possibilities are endless.

I mean, just think like how your phone, you can record videos from your phone. There's no way you could remember a video as accurately as your phone or a camera could. So now if you've got like some version 10 Neuralink, whatever and far in the future, you could recall everything, just like it's a movie.

Including all the entire sensory experience.

Everything.

Everything and play it back and in fact you can edit it.

Yeah.

You could change what you think was your past. Yeah.

This whole thing right now could be a replayed memory.

Yeah.

There's no way to assign a probability with accuracy here.

Well, I don't have a Neuralink in my brain, so I'd say right now 0%, but at the point at which you do have a Neuralink, then it rises above 0%.

It feels real doesn't it?

Yeah. I'm sure, it should be disconcerting because if this is not real, what is? But, there's that old sort of thought experiment of like, how do you know you're not a brain in a vent? I mean now here's the thing. You are a brain in a vent, then that vat is your skull.

Everything you see, feel, hear, everything, all your senses are electrical signals, everything. Everything is an electrical signal to a brain in a vent with a vat as our skull.

Sure.

Absolutely. Yet, here's another sort of interesting idea, which is, because you say like where did consciousness arise? Well, assuming you believe the belief in physics, which proves to be true, then the universe started off as basically quarks and leptons and it quickly became hydrogen and helium, lithium, basically elements of the periodic table. But it was mostly hydrogen basically. Then over a long period of time, 13.8 billion years later that hydrogen became sentient. What's the line of consciousness and not consciousness between hydrogen and here?

Yeah. I saw that one. It went viral.

The one that just dragged the baby down the street pretty far?

There's definitely some degree of consciousness there.

Well, I hope consciousness propagates into the future and it gets more sophisticated and complex and that it understands the questions to ask about the universe.

I mean, you don't always improve, but you can aspire to improve or you can aspire to be less wrong.

This is like, I think the tools of physics are very powerful. Just assume you're wrong and your goal is to be less wrong. I don't think you're going to succeed every day in being less wrong, but if you're going to succeed in being less wrong, most of the time you're doing great.

You can still have a campfire.

Yeah. Sure. I think so. Yeah. I like campfires.

We'll communicate.

It's clever compression of a concept and a feeling.

Yeah, absolutely.

I like electronic music.

Sure.

Yeah, I mean I hope the future is more fun and interesting and we're just trying to make it that way.

Yeah.

We might lose a little, but hopefully we gain more than lose.

It's not for sure. Yeah. I mean you look at civilization through the ages, most of them they rose and fell.

I do think the globalization that we have, sort of like the meme sphere, is there's not enough isolation between countries or regions. It's like if you get, if there's a mind virus that that mind virus can infect too much of the world. I actually sort of sympathize with the anti-globalization people, because it's like, man, we don't ever want everywhere to be the same for sure. Then we need some kind of mind viral immunity. So that's a bit concerning.

No, I'm talking about like somebody, some cockeyed concept that happens right now.

Well, when I'm talking about a mind virus, I'm talking about a concept that infects people's minds.

Yeah. It's just wrongheaded idea that goes viral in an idea sense.

Yeah. Yeah.

Yes.

Well, I mean it's the kind of thing where your productivity would improve, I don't know, dramatically, maybe by a factor of 10 with it. So you could definitely just, I don't know, take out a loan and do it and earn the money back real fast. Be super smart.

Well, it's not a super huge concern. I mean there are huge differences in cognitive ability and resources already. You can think of a corporation as like a cybernetic collective that's far smarter than an individual. I couldn't personally build a whole rocket and the engines and launch it and everything. That's impossible.

But we have 8,000 people at SpaceX and you're piecing it out to different people and using computers and machines and stuff. We can make lots of rockets launch into orbit, dock with the space station and that kind of thing. So that already exists where those corporations are vastly more capable than an individual. But we should be, I think less concerned about relative capabilities between people and more like having AI be vastly beyond us and decoupled from human will.

Yeah.

Super sentient to AI. Yeah, like beyond a level that's difficult to understand and impossible to understand probably.

It's not a requirement. It's just if you want to be along for the ride then you need to do some kind of symbiosis. So the way your brain works right now, you've got kind of like the animal brain, reptile brain, kind of like the lymphic system basically. You've got the cortex. Now the brain purist will argue with this definition, but essentially you've got the primitive brain and you've got the sort of smart brain or the brain that's capable of planning and understanding concepts and difficult things that a monkey can't understand.

Now your cortex is much, much smarter than your lymphic system. Nonetheless, they work together well. So I haven't met anyone who wants to delete their lymphic system or their cortex. People are quite happy having both. So you can think of this as being like the computer, the AI is like a third layer, a tertiary layer. So that could be symbiotic with the cortex. It'd be much smarter than the cortex, but you essentially have three layers and you actually have that right now.

Your phone is capable of things and your computer is capable of things that your brain is definitely not. Storing terabytes of information perfectly, doing incredible calculations that we couldn't even come close to doing. You have that with your computer. It's just like I said, the data rate is slow, the connection is weak.

I don't think, that's not how it would be. Like I said you already are symbiotic with AI or computers.

Yeah, there's quite a bit of AI going on, artificial neural nets. Increasingly, neural nets are sort of taking over from regular programming more and more. So you are connected, if you use Google Voice or Alexa or one of those things, it's using a neural net to decode your speech and try understand what you were saying.

If you're trying to do image recognition or improve the quality of photograph, the neural nets the best way to do that. So you are already sort of a cybernetic symbiote. Like I said, it's just a question of your data rate. The communication speed between your phone and your brain is slow.

Yeah, if it works I'll do it. Sure.

I mean let's make sure it works.

No, like I said, if somebody has got a serious brain injury and people that have very severe brain injuries and then you can fix those brain injuries. Then you prove out that it works and [inaudible] expand and make more and more brain injuries, solve more and more. At a certain age we all are going to get Alzheimer's or we're all going to get senile. Then moms forget the names of their kids and that kind of thing.

It's like you said, okay, well this would allow you to remember your names of your kids and have a normal, a much more normal life where you were able to function much later in life. So I think essentially almost everyone would find a need at some point if you get old enough to use Neuralink. Then it's like, okay, so we can improve the functionality and improve the communication speed. So then you will not have to use your thumbs to communicate with the computer.

Yeah, sure. I Think about it a lot. Like I said, this is not something that's going to sneak up on you. Getting FDA approval for this stuff is not overnight. I don't know, we probably have to be on version 10 or something before it would realistically be a human AI symbiote situation. You'll see it coming.

Like when?

Well, assuming civilization is still around, it's looking fragile right now. I think we could have, in 25 years probably I would think there could be a whole brain interface.

Something pretty close to that. Yeah.

Almost all the neurons are connected to the sort of AI extension of yourself. If you want.

Yeah.

Well, like I said, you already have a computer extension of yourself and your phone and computers and stuff. So, and now online it's like somebody dies, there's like an online ghost that they're still, their online stuff is still alive.

Yeah.

Instagram and their stories and yeah, whatever Facebook and stuff.

Yeah. So it would just be that more of you would be in the cloud, I guess, than in your body or more of you.

What's that? I never heard of it.

I have no idea what you're talking about.

Sure. Well, yeah. I mean this certainly has taken over the mind space of the world to a degree that is quite shocking.

Yeah, I mean I kind of saw this whole thing play out in China before it played out in the US. So it's kind of like watching the same movie again, but in English. Yeah, I think the mortality rate is much less than what say the World Health Organization said it was. It's much, much less. It's like probably at least order of magnitude less.

Yeah. I mean, you can look at the mortality statistics by age and whether they have comorbidities, like do they have basically existing conditions and by age. If you're below 60 and have no serious health issues, the probability of death is extremely low. It's not zero, but it's extremely low.

It's almost like people really wanted a panic. It's quite crazy.

Most of the hospitals in the United States right now are half empty. In some cases they're at 30% capacity.

Yes. I mean, we're not talking about just some of these elective procedures are quite important. Like you have a bad heart.

You need a triple bypass. It's sort of elective, but if you don't get it done in time, you're going to die.

Elective. It's not like, this isn't like plastic surgery.

It's more like my hip is, I'm in extreme pain because my hip's blown out or my knee and I don't want to go to the hospital. I can't go to the hospital. People are in extreme pain, people that need a kidney, people that have quite serious issues that are choosing not to go out of fear. So I think it's a problem that's not good.

So I think it's a problem that's not good.

It is.

Objectively the mortality is much lower. At least a factor of 10, maybe a factor of 50 lower than initially thought.

Well, I think proper hygiene is a good thing no matter what.

Wash your hands and if you're coughing, stay at home or wear a mask because it's not good. They do that in Japan. That's normal. If you're ill you wear a face mask and you don't cough on people. I think that would be a great thing to adopt in general throughout the world. Washing your hands is also good.

Men are disgusting it's true. It's bad.

Yeah. Just go to the restroom you can see it's horrible.

True. And I think that there's definitely some silver linings here in improved hygiene and-

Yes. I think this has shaken up the system. the system is somewhat moribund with lot of layers of bureaucracy and I think that we've cut through some of that bureaucracy. And at some point there probably will be a pandemic with a high mortality rate. Debate about like what's high. but I mean something that's killing a lot of 20 year olds, let's say. Like if you had Ebola type of mortality.

Yeah. Like killing large numbers of young healthy people, to find that as like a high mortality than that. This is at least practice for something like that. And I think there's this, given it's just a matter, that there will be eventually some such pandemic.

Yeah, absolutely. And I think there's a good chance, it's highly likely, I think, coming out of this that we will develop vaccines that we didn't have before for coronaviruses, other viruses, and possibly cures for these. And our understanding of viruses of this nature has improved dramatically because of the attention that it's received. So there's definitely a lot of silver linings here.

Yeah. I think there will be a massive lining of here no matter what. Hopefully we can be more of a silver lining than less.

So yeah, this is just kind of like a practice run for something that might in the future have a serious, like a really high mortality rate and we kind of got to go through this without it being something that kills vast numbers of young healthy people.

That is the exact wording.

Yeah, of course.

Well, I mean, I certainly get that. There's no shortage of negative feedback on Twitter. I get it.

It's a war zone.

Yeah. I mean, I scroll through the comments. Like I said, it's a meme war zone.

I mean, people knife you good and thorough.

Sure. I mean, I've been in the Twitter war zone for, for a while here, so.

And it takes a lot to phase me at this point.

Yeah. You can't take it personally. A lot of these people don't actually know you. It's like if you're fighting a war and there's like some opposing soldier that shoots at you, it's not like they hate you. They don't even know you.

Yeah.

So just think of it like that. Like they have fire and bullets, whatever. But they don't know you, so don't take it personally.

Well, there will always be some ambiguity, but tweets, it's hard. But maybe there should be like a sarcasm flag or something.

Or a "just kidding" or-

Wow, that's amazing.

Yeah, I think it's pretty great. It might be the best news source.

Is this, like, a female avatar.

Oh, okay.

I find Twitter quite engaging.

Well, I mean like five minutes every couple of hours type thing. It's not like I'm sitting on it all day.

Yeah, you have to, like I said, take a certain amount of distance from... You read this and be like, "Okay, it's bullets being fired by an opposing army." Like I said, it's not like they know you. Don't take it personally.

Yeah. That was annoying.

It was wrong.

Well, yeah. I don't think CNN is that.

Used to be, yeah. What do you think's the best source of just information out there?

Let's say you're just the average citizen trying to just get the facts, figure out what's going on. How to live your life and just looking for what's going on in the world. It's hard to find something that's good.

Not trying to push some partisan angle, not trying to not doing sloppy reporting, and just aim it for the most number of clicks and trying to maximize ad dollars and that kind of thing. You're just trying to figure out what's going on. It's like, I'm hard pressed. Where do you go?

Yeah. I think maybe just trying to find individual reporters that you think are good and kind of following them as opposed to publication.

Okay.

All right.

All right. I'll check it out.

Now that's nice.

Yeah.

Yeah. I mean, in general I think we should be concerned about anything that's a massive infringement on us. Civil liberties.

So, you got to put a lot of weight on that. A lot of people died to win independence for the country and fight for the democracy that we have. And we should treasure that and not give up our liberties too easily. And I think we probably did that, actually. So.

Fundamentally a violation of the constitution. Freedom of assembly and it's just, I don't think these things stand up in court, really.

Yeah. These would definitely not stand up if the Supreme court... It's obviously a complete violation of rights.

Yeah.

Yeah. I mean it just should be if you're at risk, you should not be compelled to leave your house or leave a place of safety, but if you're not at risk, or if you are at risk and you wish to take a risk with your life, you should have the right to do that.

Yes. I mean, there's a strong downside to this. So yeah, I just believe this is a free country. You should be allowed to do what you want as long as it does not endanger others.

Yeah. I think there's a, as I said, my opinion is if somebody wants stay home, they should stay home. If somebody doesn't want to stay home, they should not be compelled to stay home. That's my opinion. If somebody doesn't like that, well that's my opinion. This notion though, that you can just sort of send checks out to everybody and things will be fine is not true.

Obviously several have this absurd view that the economy is like some magic horn of plenty. Like it just makes stuff. There's just a magic horn of plenty and the goods and services, they just come from this magic horn of plenty. And then if somebody has more stuff than somebody else it's because they took more from this magic horn of plenty. Now let me just break it to the fools out there.

If you don't make stuff, there's no stuff. Yeah. So, if you don't make the food, if you don't process the food, you don't transport the food, medical treatment, getting your teeth fixed, there's no stuff. They've become detached from reality. You can't just legislate money and solve these things. If you don't make stuff, there is no stuff, obviously. we'll run out of the stores, run out of the... the machine just grinds to a halt.

Maybe. I think briefly.

Briefly, but I think if any kind of sensible examination of what happened in China would lead you to conclusion that that is obviously not going to occur. This virus retreated in Wuhan. There's was like, I don't know, hundred thousand people a day leaving Wuhan. So, it went everywhere very fast throughout China, throughout the rest of the world, and the fatality rate was low.

The thing is that American companies have massive supply chains in China. Like Tesla, for example. We have hundreds of suppliers. Like tier one, two, three, four suppliers throughout China. So, we know if they are able to make stuff or not. We know if they, if they have issues or not. China is back at full steam and pretty much every US company has some significant number of suppliers in China. So you know if they're able to provide things or not or if there's high mortality rate. Tesla has like 7,000 people in China. So, zero people died.

Zero.

Yeah.

Yeah. We literally run payroll.

I'm like-

Yeah. Still there.

I think this has been politicized in both directions, really. Which is not great. Yeah. But like I said [inaudible] I think there's the question of where do civil liberties fit in this picture? And what can the government make you do, what can they make you not do, and what's okay? And I think we went too far.

Absolutely. Well, I think we're rapidly moving towards opening up the country. It's going to happen extremely fast over the next few weeks. So, yeah. Something that would be helpful just to add from an informational level is when reporting Covid cases to separate out diagnosed with Covid versus had Covid like symptoms.

Because the list of symptoms that could be Covid at this point is like a mile long. So, it's hard to, if you're ill at all it's like you could recover it. So, just to give people better information. Definitely diagnosed with Covid or had Covid like symptoms. We're conflating those two so that it looks bigger than it is. Then if somebody dies, was Covid a primary cause of the death or not? I mean, if somebody has Covid, gets eaten by a shark, we find their arm, their arm has Covid, it's going to get recorded as a Covid death.

Basically.

You get hit by a bus.

If you get hit by a bus, go to the of the hospital and die, and they find that you have Covid, you will be recorded as a Covid death.

Well right now, the road to hell is paved with good intentions. I mean, it's mostly paved with bad intentions, but there's some good intentions [inaudible] in there, too. And the stimulus bill that was intended to help with the hospitals that were being overwrought with Covid patients created an incentive to record something as Covid that is difficult to say no to, especially if your hospital's going bankrupt for lack of other patients. So, the hospitals are in a bind right now. There's a bunch of hospitals, they're furloughing doctors, as you were mentioning. If your hospital's half full, it's hard to make ends meet. So now you've got like, "If I just check this box, I get $8,000. Put them on a ventilator for five minutes, I get $39,000 back. Or, I got to fire some doctors." So, this is tough moral quandary. It's like, what are you going to do? That's the situation we have.

Let's clear up the data. Clear up the data. So like I said, somebody should be recorded as Covid only if somebody has been tested. Has has received a positive, positive Covid test. Not if they simply have symptoms, one of like a hundred symptoms. And then if it is a Covid death, it must be separated. Was Covid a primary reason for death, or did they also have stage three cancer, or heart disease, emphysema, and got hit by bus and had Covid?

This is not a question. This is what is occurring.

The public health officials have literally said this. This is not a question mark.

Yes.

Yes. And like I said, this is not some sort of a moral [inaudible] of hospital administrators. It's just, they're in it. They're in a tough spot here. They actually don't have enough patients to pay everyone without furloughing doctors and firing staff. They're running potentially going bankrupt. So then they're like, "Okay, well the stimulus bill says we get all this money if it's a Covid death." I'm like, "Okay. They coughed before they died." In fact, they're not even diagnosed with Covid. If you had weakness, a cough, shortness of breath. Frankly, I'm not sure how you die without those things.

Yeah.

Yes. But to be clear, you don't even need to have gotten a Covid diagnosis. You simply need to have had one of many symptoms and then have died for some reason and it's Covid. So, then it makes the death count look very high and we're then stuck in a bind because it looks like the death count's super high and not going down like it should be. So then, we should keep whatever, keep the shelter in place stuff there, and keep people in their homes, confine people to homes. So we need to break out of this. We're stuck in a loop. And I think the way to break out of this loop is to have clarity of information.

Yes.

I know a lot of people who got it. I know zero people who died, but I know a lot of people that got it.

That is correct.

Just parse out the data. Don't lump it all together. If you give people, just parse out the data better, clearer information about, like I said, was this an actual COVID diagnosis? Did they get the test and the test came back positive or do they just have some symptoms? Just parse those two out, and then parse out just, if somebody died, did they even have a COVID test or did they just have one of many symptoms. How do you die without weakness? I don't know. It's impossible, basically.

If you're going to die, you're going to have shortness of breath, weakness and you might cough a little.

Yeah, did that person, did they actually have a COVID test and the test come back positive? And then if they died, did they die where COVID was... It doesn't have to be the main cause, but it was a significant contributor to their death or was it not a significant contributor to the death?

Definitely not.

Yeah.

I mean, people die all the time and they have like flu and other colds and we don't say that they died of those flu and other colds.

It's absurd.

Yeah.

I mean, every year in the world, several hundred thousand people die directly of the flu.

Not tangentially.

Not every-

Yeah. And we're only 5% of the world.

So, oh man, cigarettes. Now cigarettes will really kill you.

Yeah. I mean, several years ago, or maybe longer, 10 years ago, I helped make a movie called Thank You for Smoking.

Yeah. It's, it's crazy. Barbecuing your lungs is just bad news. It's not good. Turning your lungs into smoked beef, not great. So yeah. Tylenol, by the way, also kills a lot of people.

I'm not sure the exact number. But until the opioid crisis, I believe Tylenol was the number one killer of all drugs.

Because basically, if you get drunk and take a lot of Tylenol, acetaminophen, essentially it causes liver failure. So people would like get wasted and then have a headache and then pop a ton of Tylenol, its curtains.

Yeah.

Yeah. But nobody's, raging against Tylenol.

Yeah, water is really dangerous.

Stop water.

Yes.

Yes.

We do. Nobody lives forever.

I mean I think, you want to look at say deaths as like the, "but for this disease, whatever, they would have lived X number of years."

So, if somebody dies when they're 20 and could have lived till 80, they lost 60 years. But if somebody dies when they're 80 and they might've lived till 81 they lost one year.

So it's, "How many life years were lost" is probably the right metric to use.

It's not true.

Yeah definitely not.

Oh my god.

Let's just say, it's about the same.

Yes. I mean actually, I think a lesson to be taken here that I think is quite important is that, if you have your grandparents and that they're age of grandparents, really be careful with, any kind of flu or cold or something that that is not dangerous to kids or young adults, but is dangerous to the elderly. Basically, if your kid's got a runny nose, they should stay away from their grandparents, no matter what it is. There're things where a young immune system has no problem, an older one has a problem. In fact a lot of the deaths are literally, it's tragic, but they're, they're intra-family. It's, the little kid had a cold or flu and they [crosstalk].

Yeah. They had the family gathering. And they don't know that this is a big deal. But it's just important to remember when you get old, your immune system's just not that strong. And so, just be careful with your loved ones who are elderly.

Yeah. Actually, just a thing that is tough. As you get older, you tend to put on weight, certainly that's happening with me. The older I get like, "Damn, sure harder to stay lean." That's for sure. And so, actually, being overweight is a big deal. It's a fact. Yeah.

That's correct. It is, yes, exactly.

Yeah, absolutely.

Food's great.

Yeah.

Yeah. I mean to be totally frank, I mean, speaking for myself, I'd rather read tasty food and live a shorter life.

Yeah.

No. Tasty food is great, it's one of the best things about life.

Yeah, absolutely.

Yeah. I don't know what advice to give, maybe having tasty food but smaller amounts of it.

Sure.

So what?

Well Okay, yeah.

So like at night or at a certain [crosstalk]

Yeah.

Actually, this may be a useful bit of advice for people, but eating before you go to bed is a real bad idea and actually negatively affects your sleep. And it can actually cause heartburn, that you don't even know is happening, and that subtle heartburn, it affects your sleep because your horizontal and your body's digesting. So if you want to improve the quality of your sleep and be healthier, it's do not eat right before we go to sleep. It's one of the worst things you could do.

It's going to crush your sleep and it's going to damage your pyloric sphincter and your esophagus. In fact drinking and then going to sleep, that's one of the worst things you could do.

So just try to avoid drinking and eating-

Yeah, exactly. Small amounts of alcohol, evidence suggests it doesn't have a negative effect on-

Yeah. I mean some of the people who've lived the longest, there was a woman in France who I think, maybe has the record or close to it, and she had a glass of wine every day. Small amounts is fine. But yeah, I learned this like quite late in life. It's like, just avoid having alcohol and avoid eating at least two or three hours before going to sleep, and your quality of sleep will improve and your general health will improve a lot.

It's a big deal and I think, not widely known.

A little bit.

I do, although I haven't seen him for a while. But yeah, especially if I'm out, say we're working on Starship or something South Texas and I'm just living in my, I got a little house there in Boca Chica village, and I don't have much to do, so. Or I'm working and I'll just lift some weights or something. Some people love running, I don't love running. But if-

To be totally frank, I wouldn't exercise at all if I could. I prefer not to exercise, but if I'm going to exercise, I'll lift some weights and then kind of run on a treadmill and maybe watch a show, if there's a compelling show that pulls you in.

Man, don't watch Black Mirror before going to bed either.

Yeah, exactly. It's like, "Wait, that's already happened in real life."

It's too close.

He's nailed it?

Oh man.

I did martial arts when I was kid. Liked it.

I did a TaeKwonDo. I did Karate, [foreign language] [crosstalk].

And Judo.

Yeah. And did Brazilian Jujitsu briefly.

In Palo Alto.

Yeah.

Sure.

Yeah. I mean, I kind of got, probably like a lot of people, for the way-early day, the first MMA fights and Royce Gracie, and he was just like incredible. And it was like-

Yeah. He was winning against people way bigger and that kind of thing. And it was just like "Whoa, this is cool."

Right.

Especially if they know martial arts too. It's like, "Oh no."

Yeah, it was amazing. I mean Royce got beaten up pretty bad in some of those.

But he won.

Yeah, totally.

My kids... I should say, I sent my kids to jujitsu since they were like, I don't know, six.

Yeah.

[crosstalk]. Yeah.

Yes, seems like a good... Yeah.

Sure.

Well I can't say exactly when, but we got to get it... This COVID thing's kind of thrown us for a loop.

So, not to blame everything on COVID, but it's certainly set us back on progress for some number of months. But I mean things were going to get done. Ahead of Roadster are, ramping up model Y production, that'll be a great car, it is a great car, getting the Berlin Giga-factory built, and also building Y getting expanding the Shanghai factory, which is going great and get this Cybertruck, Semi truck, Roadster. Roadster is kind of like dessert. We gotta get the meat and potatoes and greens and stuff.

I mean, I think we should do Cybertruck first, before Roadster.

Now some of the-

Some of the things for Roadster, the tri-motor, plaid powertrain, we're going to have that in model S. So that's like part one of the ingredients that's needed for Roadster, is the plaid powertrain, the more advanced battery pack. That kind of thing.

Sure.

Sounds good to me, sure.

Yeah, I mean, go ahead.

Yeah. I've got no problem.

Yeah. You could for sure, lighten the car up and improve tire traction and-

I don't know specifically, but there's-

Cool.

That looks pretty nice.

Well, I think we've got to leave that for a proper sort of product unveil.

Yeah.

Oh great. Glad you like it.

Pretty fun.

Sure.

Yeah, actually, it's really quite slow. But, okay, sure.

Yeah.

You've tried it like Ludicrous Plus and stuff like that?

Yeah. Cool.

We just did a software update where it'll do, like a, cheetah stance. So yeah. So, because it's got a dynamic air suspension so it lowers the back.

Just like a sprinter basically.

Like what do you do if you're a sprinter, you hunker down and then shoo. So I shaved like a 10th of a second off the 0 to 60. I mean it's pretty fun.

And they've never felt anything like it.

Yeah.

Sure.

It's baffling.

They've never felt it.

It's faster than falling.

Yeah, pretty fun.

Yeah. It's like having your own roller coaster on tap.

Well with a Roadster, we're going to do some things that are kind of unfair. So we're going to take some things from Cadillac rocket world and put them on a car, so.

Well, like I said, we can't do the product unveil right here. But, it's going to do some things that are unfair.

When we do the unveil of the Roadster, let me just say that anyone who's been waiting, they won't be sorry. They won't be sorry.

That's the base model.

[inaudible 00:01:57:14].

Faster than that, yeah.

Well, yeah. I mean-

...at least you know that our demos are authentic, because I was not expecting that and then I think I muttered, under my breath, like "Holy shit".

No-

No, I definitely swore, I didn't think the micro pick it up but it did. But, so like we practiced this, behind the scenes. At Tesla, we don't do like tons of practice for our demos, because we're working on the cars. We're building new technologies and improving the fundamental product. So we're not spending, doing hundreds of practice things or anything like that. We don't have time for that. But, just hours before the demo, both Franz, head of design and I were in the studio throwing steel balls at the window, and it's bouncing right off. And like, "Okay, this seems pretty good. It seems like we got it." Okay? And then, we think what happened was, when Franz hit the door with the sledgehammer-

...show, this is exoskeleton, high strength, hardened steel. You can literally wind up with a sledgehammer, full on double-handed sledgehammer and hit the door and there's not even a dent. It's cool. But we think that cracked the corner of the glass at the bottom and then, once you crack the corner of the glass it's game over. So then when you threw the ball that's what cracked the glass.

It didn't go through though.

It's doesn't go through.

Yeah.

Yeah, exactly.

Yeah, I got to get back to it.

Well, I think you've got a great show. Thanks for having me on.

All right.

Anyway, that should get a little play.

