You can listen to the entire conversation right now in the audio player below. If you prefer to listen on your phone, <strong>Recode Decode</strong> is available wherever you listen to podcasts — including <a href="https://go.redirectingat.com?id=66960X1555657&amp;xs=1&amp;url=https%3A%2F%2Fitunes.apple.com%2Fus%2Fpodcast%2Frecode-decode-hosted-by-kara-swisher%2Fid1011668648%3Fmt%3D2" rel="sponsored nofollow noopener" target="_blank" has-subtag="true" data-cdata='{"subtag_max_length":50,"subtag_delim_length":3,"subtag_key":"xcust","subtag_query_data":{"id":"66960X1555657","xs":"1","url":"https://itunes.apple.com/us/podcast/recode-decode-hosted-by-kara-swisher/id1011668648?mt=2","xcust":"___vx__p_17817469__m_m-placeholder__s_s-placeholder__t_w__c_c-placeholder__r_r-placeholder__d_d-placeholder"},"encode_subtag":false}'>Apple Podcasts</a>, <a href="https://open.spotify.com/show/47jQcyRcrM1EoV0sU39N9F">Spotify</a>, <a href="https://www.google.com/podcasts?feed=aHR0cDovL2ZlZWRzLmZlZWRidXJuZXIuY29tL1JlY29kZS1EZWNvZGU%3D">Google Podcasts</a>, <a href="http://pca.st/recode">Pocket Casts</a> and <a href="https://overcast.fm/itunes1011668648/recode-decode-hosted-by-kara-swisher">Overcast</a>.
Below is the full transcript of the conversation. You can read a <a href="https://recode.net/2018/11/2/18053424/elon-musk-tesla-spacex-boring-company-self-driving-cars-saudi-twitter-kara-swisher-decode-podcast">more condensed, lightly edited version here</a>.
By the way, I think your costume is great.
What’s Twitter?
What’s going on? 
Well, I tweet interesting things pretty much as they come to me, and probably with not much of a filter. 
I find it entertaining. I think, “Oh, other people might find this entertaining.” Sometimes they do. 
Yeah. It’s pretty random. 
Yeah. Mostly at home. I spend a lot less time on Twitter than people probably think. It’s like maybe 10-15 minutes or something. 
Yeah. It’s pretty interesting what my most ... What people are most interested in, like some little tweet about “<a href="https://twitter.com/elonmusk/status/1054501056229588992">I love anime</a>.” That was it. But it was lowercase “i”, black heart, “anime,” and people loved that. That was like one of my most popular tweets. 
Not really. 
Mm-hmm.
No, I think it’s mostly just if it’s something that might cause a substantial movement in the stock during trading hours. That’s about it. 
Without somebody getting mad, no. 
I look at it as a way to learn things, kinda stay in touch with what’s happening. It feels like dipping into the flow of consciousness of society. That’s what it feels like. It’s kinda weird. I guess I sometimes use Twitter to express myself, and that’s a weird thing to do, I suppose. 
Some people use their hair to express themselves; I use Twitter. 
What did I say?
It was?
Oh. 
I was just ... I forgot which one it was.
Can you remind me?
Well, I have to say, my regard for the press has dropped quite dramatically.
The amount of untruthful stuff that is written is unbelievable. Take <a href="https://www.wsj.com/articles/tesla-faces-deepening-criminal-probe-over-whether-it-misstated-production-figures-1540576636">that Wall Street Journal front-page article</a> about like, “The FBI is closing in.” That is utterly false. That’s absurd. To print such a falsehood on the front page of a major newspaper is outrageous. Like, why are they even journalists?  
They’re terrible. 
Terrible people.
The answer is for the press to be honest and truthful, and research their articles and correct things properly when they are false. Which they don’t do. 
Yes, of course I do.
I suggest the press take it to heart and do better. 
No. 
Yeah. There are good journalists and there are bad ones, and unfortunately the feedback loop for good versus bad is inverted, so the more salacious that an article is, the more salacious the headline is, the more clicks it’s gonna get. Then somebody is not a journalist, they are an ad salesman. Not a journalist, an ad salesman. 
No. Of course not. Count how many negative articles there are and how many I respond to. One percent, maybe. But the common rebuttal of journalists is, “Oh. My article’s fine. He’s just thin-skinned.” No, your article is false and you don’t want to admit it. 
Yes.
How do you think rockets get to orbit?
Not easily. Physics is very demanding. If you get it wrong, the rocket will blow up. Cars are very demanding. If you get it wrong, a car won’t work. Truth in engineering and science is extremely important. 
I have a strong interest in the truth. 
Much more than journalists do. 
No, I wouldn’t say that. 
I think they’re great. 
No, not all of them. 
It’s been a very difficult year. 
We had the Model 3 production ramp, which was excruciatingly difficult. It is incredibly difficult to survive as a car company. Incredibly difficult. People have no idea how much pain people at Tesla went through, including myself. It was excruciating. 
Excruciating.
Pretty sure I burnt out a bunch of neurons during this process. Running both SpaceX and Tesla is an incredibly difficult ... You realize we’re fighting the incredibly competitive car companies. They make very good cars. They’ve been doing this for a long time. They are entrenched. Mercedes, Audi, BMW, Lexus, you name it. All those car brands. And the history of car companies in America is terrible. The only ones that haven’t gone bankrupt are Tesla and Ford. That’s it. Everyone else has gone bankrupt. 
Yes. 
It’s trivial to start a car company.
It is insanely difficult to make it successful. 
It sounds like you’re not hearing me. 
You’re definitely not understanding me.
Making a car company successful is monumentally difficult. There have been many attempts to create a car company and they have all failed, even the ones that have had a strong base of customers, thousands of dealers, thousands of service centers, they’ve already spent the capital for the factories, like GM and Chrysler, still went bankrupt in the last recession. Ford and Tesla made it barely through the last recession. There’s a good chance Ford doesn’t make it in the next recession. So, as a startup, a car company, it is far more difficult to be successful than if you’re an established, entrenched brand. It is absurd that Tesla is alive. Absurd! Absurd. 
Excruciating effort. 
Hundred-hour weeks by everyone. 
Yes. There wasn’t some other way to do this. 
There <em>wasn’t</em> some other way to do this, Kara. 
Yes.
Well, the other option would have been, Tesla dies. 
Yeah. Tesla cannot die. Tesla is incredibly important for the future of sustainable transport and energy generation. The fundamental purpose, the fundamental good that Tesla provides is accelerating the advent of sustainable transport and energy production. 
Yes. The success of Tesla is, by far, the biggest forcing function for the other car makers to get into —
Yeah. Into electric cars. They’ve said so. 
Yes. It’s very important for the future of the world. It’s very important for all life on Earth. This supersedes political parties, race, creed, religion, it doesn’t matter. If we do not solve the environment, we’re all damned. 
Yes. It sort of blows my mind, all these social justice warriors driving around in diesel cars. It’s outrageous. Do you have an electric car?
Shame on you.
Okay.
Sure. I’m shaming you into buying you an electric car. 
I’m really car-shaming you.
Driving something. 
No, I think the electrification of transport, and there’s also an important part of Tesla which is solar and stationary batteries, because you need to generate electricity in a standard, sustainable way with solar and then store it at night when the sun goes down with batteries, and then use that energy from the sun to power cars. Without Tesla, this would still happen. There would still be a transition to sustainable energy, but it would take much longer. History will judge this, obviously, but I would say on the order of 10 years, maybe 20 years.
Yes. I think it’s probably fair to say that Tesla has advanced sustainable energy by at least five years, conservatively, and maybe closer to 10, and then if we continue to make progress, we might advance it by 20 years. This could be all the difference in the world. 
It’s been terrible. This year felt like five years of aging, frankly. The worst year of my entire career. Insanely painful.
For this past year, it’s been because of the Model 3 production ramp. Myself and others at Tesla, we had to go in and fix the mistakes in the Model 3 production system, and there were a lot of them. I personally solved a bunch. Jerome [Guillen] solved a bunch. Everyone helped, the entire team. Javier [Verdura], Franz [von Holzhausen], Deepak [Ahuja], everyone. It was ... like, we had the legal team delivering cars in Q3. Todd [Maron] is great. There was a lot of people ... Everyone had to basically go hardcore to solve the ramp. 
The amount of money that you lose if you don’t solve the ramp is mind-boggling, because you get hit from both sides. Let’s say you’re selling software or something, you don’t —
It would be a lot easier. But in software you don’t have a bunch of parts. You don’t have a supply chain. If you don’t sell software, you lose the revenue, but you don’t incur a massive amount of cost associated with producing the software, ’cause you just make copies pretty easily. 
But for any large, complex, manufactured item, you have an entire supply chain, and that supply chain has on the order of six months of inertia. You place the order for parts for the car, including if you’re all the way with like two or three or four suppliers ... We have on the order of 10,000 suppliers. It’s a crazy number. We have to place the orders for how many cars we think we’re gonna build roughly six months in advance, six months before final assembly, ’cause if you go all the way down the supply chain... 
Then if you don’t actually make those cars, you still have all the costs. It’s like a flotilla of supertankers. The inertia of that is incredible. If anything happens to stall out the production progress, and that could be any one of those 10,000 suppliers, or on the order of 10,000 internal processes, if any of those is slow or wrong or whatever, you can’t make cars. You only need one missing thing, and whatever the slowest, least lucky part of the production process is, that sets your rate. 
Yeah, there’s no question there’s, like, self-inflicted wounds. In fact, my brother said, “Look, if you do a self-inflicted wound, can you at least not twist the knife afterwards?” You stabbed yourself in the leg. You don’t really need to twist it in your leg. Why do that?
It’s not intentional. 
Sometimes you’re just under a lot of pressure, and —
You’re not getting much sleep, you’re under massive pressure, and you make mistakes.
It’s totally over. I will never make another mistake again.
Yeah. Things are back to a hard work schedule, but not an insane work schedule. I was, there were times when, some weeks ... I don’t know. I haven’t counted exactly, but I would just sort of sleep for a few hours, work, sleep for a few hours, work, seven days a week. Some of those days must have been 120 hours, or something nutty. You’re gonna go a little bonkers if you work 120 hours a week. Now we’re down to 80 or 90. It’s pretty manageable.
Yeah. It’s not like for fun or something. 
No, it’s just like, if you’re super-stressed, you can’t go to sleep. You either have a choice of, like, okay, I’ll have zero sleep and then my brain won’t work tomorrow, or you’re gonna take some kind of sleep medication to fall asleep. 
Yeah, 80 or 90 ...
Yeah. 80 is pretty sustainable. 
Yeah. The pain level for hours increases exponentially. It’s like nonlinear above 80. 
I think at Tesla we’re doing pretty well right now. Tesla’s not staring death in the face. We’re in, I think, a pretty good position. We don’t want to be complacent, but it’s not ... Up until around September, we were really faced with, like, “We must solve this or we’re gonna die,” constantly. I feel like we’re no longer in the staring-death-in-the-face situation. 
Well, you never want to get complacent, so we still need to work hard, but I think we’re over the hump. We’re certainly over the hump on Model 3 production. For us, making 5,000 cars in a week for Model 3 is not a big deal. That’s just normal. Now we’re working on raising to 6,000 and then 7,000 Model 3s a week, while still keeping costs under control. We could probably do 6,000 or more, maybe 6,500 Model 3s a week right now, but it would have to stress people out and do tons of overtime. 
Our cars are constantly being updated with new technology, so we don’t really have a model year like other car companies. As soon as we come up with some improvement, we just roll it into production. 
Drive on Navigation?
That’s I think one of the first major steps toward full self-driving. You can enter in an address, and from highway on-ramp to highway off-ramp, the car will change lanes. It will go from one highway to the next automatically, and take off-ramp automatically. It’s pretty wild. It’ll overtake a slow car. It’s basically integrating navigation with the Autopilot capability. That’s why we call it Navigate on Autopilot or Drive on Nav.
Well, the main challenge has been improving the neural net so that we can recognize all types of objects from all eight cameras. There are eight cameras: Three forward, two on each side, and one rear. We’re running essentially eight neural nets of varying complexity. We’ve got to integrate the output of the neural nets into path-planning and then hook in the navigations, say, “Where do you need to go?” The big challenge has been solving a wide range of corner cases. So if you have a —
Yeah, the roads are pretty messy, so you could have, say, skid marks on the road that look like a line. Sometimes tar seams look like a line. Sometimes the lines are just painted wrong, for some reason. One of our biggest challenges, actually, with Drive on Navigation was dealing with forks and gores, where if a lane is splitting, you need to be confident that you’re going either left or right, not down the center. And the car will come to a halt at the first intersection. 
Now we’re integrating stop signs, traffic lights, being able to do, say, hard right turns or hairpin bends and that kind of thing. 
Yeah, we’re not really thinking about it. We’re assuming that there won’t be —
No. The car needs to drive better than a human driver using the same inputs as a human driver. Eyes are basically just cameras. All creatures on Earth navigate with cameras. A fish eagle can see a fish from far away and take into account the refractive index of the water, dive down and get the fish from far away. There’s no question that image-recognition neural nets and cameras, you can be superhuman at driving with just cameras. 
Yeah, that’s hopeless. That would, at best, be a specialized solution, and whatever city puts stuff in roads ... You can always make something work for a specific solution, like some special-case solution in some town, you can make that easy, but what you really want is a general solution for self-driving that works worldwide. 
I think the key thing for convincing regulators that self-driving is OK is to show billions of miles with a much better statistical significance in safety than human drivers. If the probability of injury is half that of the average human driver, then I think, probably, regulators will support self-driving. But it has to be a very large population. The statistical population of miles has to be very big, like billions, in essentially almost every possible case. 
Again, we’re assuming that’s ... We’re assuming that nothing is done on the road side, but from a regulatory standpoint, I think it’s just gonna be who ... You know, which regulatory agency has the best appreciation of statistics.
Actually, China’s pretty good. I think the U.S. is pretty good.
I hope this is a federal system, because otherwise it’s gonna get weird when you cross state borders, and then you’re in a different situation.
Yeah, I mean especially like in, say, East Coast, you’re going from like, you know, New York, Rhode Island, Massachusetts, New Hampshire. Like you go through like several states pretty quickly, and then you wouldn’t wanna have things be different in each state.
Yeah, not ... Yeah. We certainly have a close relationship with NHTSA, especially, so like the ... You know the sort of hardcore, sort of the entity that really is the hardcore regulator of road transport is NHTSA. NHTSA sort of —
Yeah, they’re like the regulator of cars, really.
Saudi Arabia, not SoftBank.
Yeah. I don’t really think that much about competitors. I just say like, you know, how do we make our cars as good as possible? How do we make sure we have like the best engineering and manufacturing talent in the world?
You know, Tesla doesn’t do any advertising, or we don’t do any paid endorsements, we don’t sort of haggle for cars or anything like that. So we’re really reliant on the quality of product to sell. And I think it makes sense to sort of put our budget into advancing the technology to make the best possible cars.
So, you know that’s ... I’m not sure looking at competitors really helps. It’s sort of like the old adage with, you know, running, you don’t wanna ... If you start looking at the other runners, it’s not good, you know.
Like you can lose races because of that.
I mean self-driving, maybe Google, Waymo? I don’t think anyone is close to Tesla in terms of achieving a general solution for working on —
Yeah. Yeah. You can definitely make things work like in one particular city or something like that by special-casing it, but in order to work, you know, all around the world in all these different countries where there’s, like, different road signs, different traffic behavior, there’s like every weird corner case you can imagine. You really have to have a generalized solution. And best to my knowledge, no one has a good generalized solution except ... and I think no one is likely to achieve a generalized solution to self-driving before Tesla. I could be surprised, but...
No.
The other car companies ... I don’t wanna sound overconfident, but I would be very surprised if any of the car companies exceeded Tesla in self-driving, in getting to full self-driving. 
You know, I think we’ll get to full self-driving next year. As a generalized solution, I think. But that’s a ... Like we’re on track to do that next year. So I don’t know. I don’t think anyone else is on track to do it next year.
Not that I’m ... I think there’s ... I would say, unless they’re keeping it incredibly secret, which is unlikely, I don’t think any of the car companies are likely to be a serious competitor.
In self-driving, I don’t think so. They’re just not good at software. And this is a software problem.
It’s a harder problem, too, on the compute side. But they’re also not doing anything on the compute side.
So it’s like ... You do need an advanced sort of AI computer that’s very good at doing matrix multiplication with localized memory. So that —
Yeah, I mean ... you need a specialized inference engine. Like the Tesla hardware 3 Autopilot computer, that will start rolling into production early next year, is 10 times better than the next best system out there at the same price, volume and power consumption. And it’s really because it’s got a dedicated neural net chip. Which basically, it sounds complicated, but it’s really like a matrix multiplier with a local memory.
I would say close to zero percent, probably.
Yeah.
This is my honest ... This is —
This is just my ... what I think. I mean, I’m not ... it’s not like ... I could be wrong, but this is what I think.
They might have sold it, I don’t know.
You know ... I mean, as I said earlier this year, I think we will be cash-flow positive for all quarters going forward.
No.
I don’t think so.
We don’t need to go private, I think I .... going private would ... I think we could execute better if we were private.
Yeah, you know, not to harp on those short-sellers, because people think I have this obsession with them, but I spent like one percent [or] less of time thinking about them —
Less than one percent of my tweets have anything to do with short-sellers.
Yeah, but if like one in a hundred is about short-sellers, that’s still 1 percent.
I think that’s like probably even less than that.
But the issue is that there’s a group of people who are quite smart, very mean, and have a strong financial interest in Tesla’s downfall. 
And what that results in is a constant attack on the Tesla brand, on me personally, on the executive team, on our cars. You know, every mistake we make is amplified. And this is not good. So the ... 
You know, the thought about going private was really just saying, okay, if we’re private ... Going private would definitely result in some short-term drama, but if we can avoid the distraction of ... If we can avoid the brand damage of ... Let’s say we’re private, and then we went public five years from now. Then the area under the curve of brand damage by short-sellers would be probably less than the short-term difficulty of going private in the first place. That was the approximate calculus. And then also being public, particularly when everyone at the company’s a shareholder, causes a lot of distraction when the share price moves around a lot.
Yeah, yeah. It’s gone up. You know, it tends to end up being like a mood, to some degree, a mood thermometer. So it’s like the stock goes down, people are sad and feel undercompensated. And then when the stock goes up, people are exuberant, overly exuberant, and —
Yeah, you get distracted thinking about what you’re going to buy.
So, like, neither of these things are great. When you have big moves in the stock, this just causes a distraction.
No.
Yes.
Yeah, I’m super-excited about the future —
Ha-ha. We definitely do.
The supersonic VTOL jet, electric jet.
No, hovercrafts are pretty straightforward.
But —
A supersonic vertical-takeoff-and-landing electric jet would be interesting to do at some point, I think. But my head would definitely explode if I tried to do that right now.
But I’ve been thinking about that design for nine years.
Yeah.
It’s great. 
Yeah.
I mean, I wrote down some of it, but ... 
There were like a few things —
Yeah, I think what fires me up about Tesla is, I think we’ve got the most exciting product roadmap of any company in the world.
We’ve got the Model Y, the compact ... midsize, more midsize SUV. The Tesla Semi, which is gonna be great for taking ... Because semis are in constant use and use a tremendous amount of fuel, so the Tesla Semi, I think, can have a huge effect, positive effect on —
Nice jacket.
“Who are you wearing?”
It’s my favorite jacket, actually. I’ve had it for ages.
The reason it looks like ... It looks kind of worn-out, it’s ’cause it is.
It’s not, like, accidentally. It’s that’s how —
All right, yeah. Exactly. Just to recap the things that are coming out, because I think it is ... I think it’s literally the most exciting product lineup of any company in the world. Certainly from a consumer standpoint. I’ll just go through the things that are publicly announced.
You’ve got the Model Y, which is the midsize SUV. You’ve got the Semi truck, which is, can be great for really heavy transport. It’ll be like the heaviest class of truck, of industrial truck.
We’ve got the next-generation Roadster. Which will be the fastest sports car on every dimension. Fastest acceleration, fastest top speed, best handling. The goal with the Tesla Roadster is to show that an electric car can be the best sports car on <em>every</em> dimension. I think that’s very important to kind of get rid of this, like, halo effect that gasoline cars, sports cars, have —
Well, like let’s say that the fastest, top-speed cars in the world are still gasoline sports cars. So I think we ... It’s important to have an electric sports car that’s faster than the fastest gasoline sports car. And it helps address that halo effect that gasoline sports cars have. So I think it’s important to do that to show that, you know, electric is the best architecture.
Then we’ve got the pickup truck, which  — actually, I’m personally most excited about the pickup truck.
Well I can’t talk about the details, but it’s gonna be like a really futuristic like cyberpunk, “Blade Runner” pickup truck.
It’s gonna be awesome, it’s gonna be amazing.
This will be heart-stopping. It stops my heart. It’s like, oh, it’s great.
You know, I actually don’t know if a lot of people will buy this pickup truck or not, but I don’t care.
I mean I do care, eventually, you know. Like sure, I care. We wanna get gasoline, diesel pickup trucks off the road.
But if I find, like, you know, I’m personally super-excited by this pickup truck. It’s something I’ve been wanting to make for a long time. And I’ve been iterating sort of designs with Franz ... It’s like I really wanted something that’s like super-futuristic cyberpunk. Which, if it doesn’t ... if I’m weirdly like ... if there’s only a small number of people that like that truck, I guess we’ll make a more conventional truck in the future. But it’s the thing that I am personally most fired up about. It’s gonna have a lot of titanium.
There’s like, you’ll see. It’s like ...
No, it’s gonna be ... Like, I think this is the kinda thing the consumer would want to buy, even if they don’t normally buy a pickup truck.
So, anyway, that’s personally I’m most excited about. But like I said, it could be just like, okay, I weirdly like it and other people don’t. That’s possible. But we’re gonna make it anyway, and then we will just have a niche audience, I don’t know. But if it does, then we’ll make a more conventional pickup truck.
No. I rode motorbikes a lot when I was a kid. So I did, like, dirt biking and then rode a motorcycle on the road. And then I almost got killed when I was 17, so ... 
Yeah. So it’s like I ... You know, most people are paralyzed, but depending on how you count it, the probability of death in a motorcycle versus —
It’s 25 times higher.
Yeah. Like organ donors. 
Yeah, so, the thing is, I rode dirt bikes for six years or more, and did all sorts of crazy jumps and things in the dirt bike, but never got seriously injured. And then —
Yeah, then I almost got killed ... 
A truck knocked ... I got hit by a truck.
Literally got hit by a truck.
So, we’re not gonna make motorcycles. But a few more Tesla products that are cool: We’re almost done with the development of the solar tile roof. So we have those on a few hundred roofs right now. And we’re just doing testing to make sure they have long-term durability.
Yeah, the solar tile roof where it looks like a normal, beautiful tile roof. But it’s actually solar. And, like, that development process is longer than we’d like, because we’ve got to make sure that the roof’s gonna stand up for 30 years.
And even when you do accelerated lab testing on a solar roof, it still takes a while. And we’ve gotta put a lot of work into making the installation process easy, so it doesn’t take ages to install a roof.
Yeah. Long-term, there won’t be any government subsidies. Those are just kind of like short-term things.
Oh cool. Great. Thank you. Good.
Yeah. I mean you probably have the retrofit solar, like that’s on top of a normal roof. 
So we have that. We’ve like kind of a regular —
This is integrated with the roof.
So the solar tile roof, where it’s integrated with the roof. You don’t even realize it’s solar. And of course we have the conventional retrofit solar, so we are working on, you know, steadily improving the aesthetics of the retrofit solar. 
Then we’ve got the Powerwall battery storage system. We’ve got the Powerpack, which is used for utilities on industrial scale. We’re gonna have some other exciting announcements on the stationary storage front. So when you —
I can’t talk more about it, but there’s —
We have a large product on the stationary storage side that I think will be very compelling for utility customers. 
No plans to make planes at Tesla.
Well, it’d be ironic if that had happened.
Better not ... I think we just be careful ... I have to be careful about tempting fate, because I think often the most ironic outcome is the most probable.
Yeah.
Reality, yes.
It might happen.
You know, like the ... It just very often seems like reality tries to ... Actually, technically, there’s a friend of mine, Jonah Nolan, who had this like modification of Occam’s razor where he said he thinks “the most ironic outcome is the most likely.” And then I think that there’s some truth to that. And then also I think sometimes the most entertaining outcome is the most likely. Whether that entertainment is in the nature of drama, comedy or something else —
I mean hopefully me dying on impact on Mars is not the most entertaining outcome.
Yeah. Yeah.
’Cause then what happens next? It’s like, okay, you’re a crater.
Yes. Yeah, so this year’s been great for SpaceX.
We successfully launched the Falcon Heavy rocket, which is the most powerful rocket in the world by a factor of two. So that’s twice the power, twice the thrust of the next biggest rocket. And we actually launched a Tesla — <em>my</em> Tesla Roadster to Mars orbit. And although ... Like a lot of people thought this was like some ego thing or whatever, but ...
It’s ... I’m trying to ...
I’m trying to listen to the reality simulation, which is do the most entertaining thing.
That’s pretty entertaining.
And you know, we had a lot of, you know, like playing David Bowie. And where, like, “Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy” stuff in there, we’ve got the Asimov Foundation series etched in glass. Like there’s a lot of like little things.
No.
There might be. I don’t know all the things that are on there. But there’s probably some weird things in there. 
The ... like the reason we did that is actually because, normally, when a new rocket is launched, you just put a dummy payload, which is like a block of concrete or something. Like, literally, I think when Boeing launched the Delta IV Heavy, they launched a block of concrete or something. 
Super-boring.
So we were like, okay, what is the <em>least</em> boring thing we can launch?
Yes. Absolutely. So we launched Falcon Heavy, we launched the Block Five or version, sort of version five, technically version seven, of Falcon 9 this year. 
We were able to re-fly a rocket three times, which is great. We came close to catching the fairing with this weird ... we actually got a boat that, that’s quite a big boat, and then put this giant net over this boat and so it’s like this boat that’s a giant catcher’s mitt —
Yeah to catch the nose cone when it’s falling back from space.
Yeah, that’s pretty fun.
No. No. We missed, unfortunately.
But we get close. We got close.
I think it’s moored in L.A. or something.
Yeah, yeah. It’s a boat with a giant net.
And it sort of —
No, I think, like, nylon or Kevlar.
Yeah, so we were close to catching the fairing. And then next year, the exciting things are we’re gonna be launching astronauts for the first time to the space station.
It’ll really be the first time a vehicle from the United States launches astronauts into orbit since the Space Shuttle, which —
2010 or something like that?
Yeah, yeah, so since then, the United States has relied upon the Russian Soyuz, which actually recently has had some issues. And that ... so for the first time, around the middle of —
... middle of next year. Yeah, the ... for the first time since the Space Shuttle, a U.S. vehicle will transport U.S. astronauts to orbit.
Well, this may be a little controversial, but I actually like the idea. I think it’s cool. You know, like, when the Air Force was formed, there was a lot of like pooh-poohing, and like, “Oh, how silly to have an Air Force!” You know, because the aircraft in World War II were managed by the Army.
And so you had the Army and the Navy and the Coast Guard and the Marines, and then ... it became pretty obvious that you really needed a specialized division to manage aircraft. And so the Air Force was created. 
And people today may not realize back then it was wildly panned as a ridiculous thing to create the Air Force, but now everyone’s like, “Obviously you should have an Air Force.” And I think it’s gonna become obvious that we should have a Space Force, too.
Well, I mean, I kinda think it’s ... You know, it’s basically defense in space. And then I think also it could be pretty helpful for maybe expanding our civilization ... You know, expanding things beyond Earth.
You know, the Space Force could be something that ... Like, I think we could just have a base on the moon, for example. A base on Mars. Be great to expand on the idea of a Space Force. 
Like, you know, I think ... for explorers ... anyone who has an exploratory spirit, and I think that especially applies to a country like the United States, where you know it’s kind of the distillation of the spirit of human exploration. I think the idea of being out there among the stars and among the planets is very exciting.
I don’t know ... I haven’t had detailed conversations.
But I do think it will become obvious over time that a Space Force is a sensible thing to do.
Yeah, we’re still aiming for 2024.
I don’t know if I will go or not. It may be just an unmanned mission, you know. I’m not sure if there’ll be people onboard or not. 
But there is a Mars rendezvous opportunity, ’cause you can only do a launch to Mars roughly every two years. So around the 2024 timeframe, there’s a rendezvous opportunity for Mars, which hopefully we can catch. There’s one in 2022 —
Hopefully, there are people on board. But I think there’s a pretty good chance of at least having an unmanned craft go to Mars. I think we will try to do this.
Yes.
Well, I suspect by the time we make enough progress to wanna try to do it, I suspect that the U.S. government will be interested in doing this, too, or being part of the effort. But I think ... the vehicle that we’re designing right now, which is sort of code-named BFR, I’m thinking of changing the official name to Heart of Gold.
Well, I do like that song, but it’s more like <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Technology_in_The_Hitchhiker%27s_Guide_to_the_Galaxy#Heart_of_Gold">the spaceship in “Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy.”</a>
And it’s powered by infinite improbability. I still think it’s the great ... This is like a very great power source.
BFR is, to some degree, a Rorschach test on acronyms. But officially, it is the Big Falcon Rocket.
It’s a Rorschach test.
Yeah, I certainly think NASA should continue to exist, NASA does a lot of really useful things, and these go beyond astronaut transport. There are missions to rovers on Mars that are thanks to NASA. There are these planetary probes, there’s the Hubble Telescope, there’s a ... So, NASA does a tremendous amount of good, so I definitely think we should ... NASA should continue, and ideally we should actually increase the budget of NASA, and we’re really ... I think it’s high time that we went beyond Earth orbit again. I think it’s very exciting and inspiring, and I think it really gets the whole world fired up.
It can, yeah. I mean, when the first humans stepped foot on the Moon, it was probably the most inspiring thing, maybe in history?
Yeah, it’s like, if it’s not the most inspiring ... I think it’s the most inspiring thing in history for Earth as a whole. We should try to do more of that stuff.
Yeah.
Yeah, I think it’s great that Jeff is spending lots of money on space. And they are a competitor, but it’s good that he’s spending money on ... that he’s spending a lot of money on developing rockets. I think it will encounter some challenges getting to orbit, it’s remarkably difficult getting to orbit. But he has the resources to overcome those difficulties.
He seems, he’s got some spare —
Some spare change in the couch, I think.
No, I don’t generally acquire things.
I create companies, but I don’t really acquire them. So I wouldn’t ... I have no plans. It does seem to be popular these days.
Yeah, yeah, totally.
Wait, is there something you think I should buy?
I mean, do you have any suggestions?
Don’t know.
Yeah, he does have a lot. Speaking of the vagaries of stock price, though, it’s like Amazon shot way up and then it went down. And I think Amazon is a great company and Jeff’s done some amazing things, and Amazon is obviously one of the greatest companies in the world. But I imagine that they experienced challenges when the stock price rises so much and then falls, and it’s —
Yeah, but it’s, what, dropped 30 percent or something. That’s quite a lot, you know?
Oh, great, yeah. Eric’s been a —
Yeah, Eric’s been a great supporter.
Yeah, Eric’s been really supportive of our activity in L.A. I mean, technically, our first tunnels are in Hawthorne. But we do expect to, over time, create a network of tunnels under greater L.A. And I think this is really the key to getting around the city very fast. You’ve got to go 3-D. Essentially, we have a 3-D ... our offices are 3-D and dense, but we then have a 2-D road transport network, so it’s ... And everyone would just go in and out of the buildings at the same time, so, naturally, you’re going to have traffic. It’s like —
Yeah, many levels of tunnels, so —
Yeah, but even subways tend to be essentially two-dimensional. You’ll have a subway cross another subway, but they’ve never really tried to make many layers of subways. The cost of tunneling, historically, has been prohibitive. And they’ve also been incredibly slow. So, if it takes ... I don’t know how long. Say the New York Subway had a one-mile extension or something, and it cost —
Yeah, exactly. I know that L.A. has a subway, although people don’t ... most people don’t —
Is it good?
You’re the first person I’ve met that actually uses the subway.
Well, they had a two-mile extension, or two-and-a-half-mile extension on the subway that cost $2 billion. So the typical cost for a subway, per-mile cost for a subway in the U.S. has been about a billion dollars a mile, so that is not a very scalable solution.
Yeah, so you really have to ... We have to massively improve the technology associated with digging tunnels so that —
Being many layers. I mean, you could do ... you could certainly have a subway system which had many layers of tunnels, but the tunnels are so prohibitively expensive that they don’t do it. But you can go down 100 levels if you want to, you could have 100 layers of tunnels on top of each other, it’s ... You can go further down than you can go up. So the deepest mines are much deeper than the tallest buildings. But, really, the key is a massive improvement in tunneling technology. That’s the linchpin, that’s fundamentally what it amounts to. And as I got sort of digging into tunnels ... Ha-ha, good one.
Yeah, yeah, no, I’ve got a million of ’em.
Tunnels are really so underappreciated.
They have no place to go but down.
I am a dad, so —
Yeah, totally. So —
Yeah, no, no I definitely am amused by myself, it’s a terrible habit. Terrible habit.
Yes, tunnels. So, the —
No no, it’s a terrible habit, I laugh at my own jokes, even with the terrible ones. So, what I discovered is that there are massive improvements possible in tunneling technology, and I found ... I always look at things from a fundamentals-of-physics standpoint, and so if you sort of apply physics’ first principles to any given technology endeavor, you can sort of envelop the possibilities. And what I discovered in talking to the engineering heads of the various tunneling companies is that they actually did not know what ... I had no idea what the true potential of tunneling was.
’Cause the first question I’d ask is, “Well, is your tunneling machine power-limited or thermally limited?” This was a very obvious question from a physics standpoint. Nobody knew. None of them could answer that question. I was like, “Okay, this is not a good sign.” And the answer is, basically everything’s power-limited within the framework of how much you can transport heat away from the face using some sort of liquid cooling system. But we’re so far away from that, it’s ... We’re <em>crazy</em> far away from that.
No, of being anywhere near the thermal limit. Things like increasing power is relatively easy, and then you hit the threshold where you’ve added so much power that you’re melting the drill head.
So then you have to put a lot of effort into cooling the drill head in order to not melt it, or go with advanced ceramics. But then you still have to cool the bearings and the bearing housings. So I’m used to a lot of this stuff from rocket engine design, for example. The turbopump on the Merlin engine runs at like 36,000 RPM. It’s got 10,000 horsepower and weighs —
Yeah, essentially taking rocket technology and automotive technology and applying it to drilling technology.
We need to massively crank up the power to the drill head, and then ... then we need to cool it. But the first step is simply jacking up the power like crazy, and then automating the placement of the tunnel reinforcements, so that the tunnel —
Yeah, like right now, tunnel machines will drill for a bit and then they’ll stop, and people will put in ... very slowly put in the —
The reinforcing segments. And so tunneling machines basically go at half-speed.
Well, you can make house construction crazy-fast if you’re in a factory.
Yeah, construction in general is ... I think there’s a lot of potential for disruption and for entrepreneurs to enter construction in general. There’s a tremendous amount of opportunity. Anyway, so massively cranking up the power of the drill, then making the drill battery-powered ... which is not something they’d ever considered. But if you don’t make it battery-powered then you’ve got to have this massive cable —
Yeah. And then the cable, in order to have the cable manageable at all, has to be an 11 kVA ... 11,000 volts cable, and even then it’s thick. And then you’ve got to have step-down transformers for the drill head-
Because the drill head’s going to operate at 480 volts or thereabouts, it’s not going to operate at 11,000. So you’ve got these massive transformers, this crazy cable length, the —
Yeah, it’s very slow, and then this is what blew my mind. They’re using a diesel locomotive. The standard practice is to use a diesel locomotive to transport the tunneling segments to the drill head and to transport the dirt out, and to use it — and a one-way.
Yeah, it’s pretty weird. So, if you’ve got a diesel locomotive in a tunnel, then you’ve got to put massive effort into blowing clean air into the tunnel and getting ... ’cause you’ve got the —
Oh, well, we’d just use an electric car.
Yes, we took a Model 3 chassis and converted that into a train, a Model 3-powered train chassis, and so now we have a —
It’s not consuming oxygen and spewing noxious fumes, this was a big improvement.
Yeah, we’re about to finish the first test tunnel.
I don’t know, I think it’s probably ... Excluding the equipment, probably cost us $10 million for a mile.
It’s one-way, admittedly, but —
We’re planning on having an opening party on Dec. 10th, in six weeks.
Yeah.
Yeah, you wanna come?
Yeah, this’ll be a very one-dimensional party.
Yeah, well I mean, it’s important to appreciate that the Saudis have been approaching me for two years about going private. It wasn’t like spur-of-the-moment.
Yeah, I mean, that sounds pretty bad. So ... that is not good. That is bad.
That was really bad, it was really —
Sorry, are you asking about the Saudis or something else? Okay.
I think we probably would not, yes.
I know I can’t speak to that, I mean, it’s not ... Saudi Arabia’s an entire country, so I think you don’t want to, if there’s one really bad thing that occurred, nail down the whole country, it’s not great.
Sure.
They didn’t elect him, you know?
I think we should just consider that there is a whole country, and there’s, you know ... There are a lot of good people in Saudi Arabia, and Saudis who are outside of Saudi Arabia. So I think you cannot paint an entire country with one brush.
I think there are serious issues, it’s not good.
Yeah, I think there’s probably ... It probably makes sense if something is responsible for a public good, and could potentially negatively affect elections or something like that, that there probably should be some regulatory oversight to ensure that we’re not negatively affecting the democratic process. That the quality of news is good and not unduly influenced. These seem like sensible things.
In the long term, if it ... As AI gets probably much smarter than humans, the relative intelligence ratio is probably similar to that between a person and a cat, maybe bigger. I do think we need to be very careful about the advancement of AI and —
Yeah, I think ... I mean, my recommendation for the longest time has been consistent. I think we ought to have a government committee that starts off with insight, gaining insight. Spends a year or two gaining insight about AI or other technologies that are maybe dangerous, but especially AI. And then, based on that insight, comes up with rules in consultation with industry that give the highest probability for a safe advent of AI.
I do not.
No, to the best of my knowledge, this is not occurring.
Yeah, OpenAI was about the democratization of AI power. So that’s why OpenAI was created as a nonprofit foundation, to ensure that AI power ... or to reduce the probability that AI power would be monopolized.
There is a very strong concentration of AI power, and especially at Google/DeepMind. And I have very high regard for Larry Page and Demis Hassabis, but I do think that there’s value to some independent oversight.
I think sometimes when I mention the simulation, people infer that, “Well, therefore we shouldn’t take what appears to be reality seriously.” And I do think we should take what appears to be reality seriously, yeah.
I said, “What appears to be reality.”
For some reason, I feel optimistic. And I’m not sure if that is irrational or not, but that is my —
My current gut feel is weirdly optimistic.
I don’t know, don’t know.
Well, you were right.
Yeah. By the way, I still think it was worth trying on the Trump ... to be on the Trump councils, and especially just to be an advocate for climate, I did my absolute best, and it’s sort of —
I definitely do not think I am Jesus.
Arguably, it was unlikely, but it was worth a shot, yeah.
Do you mean now, or ...?
I don’t know, are there councils?
Yes. And, actually, I’m not sure if you know this but in terms of ... LGBTQIA? This like a very quite complicated —
Yeah, but —
Totally. I’m like, “Do I have all the letters?”
Oh no, okay. But there’s an independent organization that evaluates companies in terms of their ... let’s at least for now, say just LGBTQ-friendliness. And we’ve gotten 100 out of 100 every year for like four or five years running, so —
Yeah, absolutely.
I am thinking about the midterm elections, and I did vote, by the way.
Though I do wonder what effect a vote in California has.
There’s so much gerrymandering of electoral districts that it seems like ... I voted for the sake of voting, but things are very divisive right now, politically. But it’s probably not wise for me to wade into political debates, it’s a no-win situation.
I definitely wish people wouldn’t yell at each other quite so much, I wish there was less hate.
No. I mean, I think the ... I feel we’re doing a lot of good here at Tesla on the climate stuff, and also making products people love. It’s one thing to make an electric car, but can we also make a product that people love, that really makes them happy?
There’s not many products you can buy that really make you happier. And so Apple did that for a long time, I still think, obviously, that Apple makes great phones, and —
The ones without the cable?
Yeah, the one without the cable?
Yeah.
No, I still use an iPhone and everything. But Apple used to really bring out products that would blow people’s minds, you know?
And still make great products, but there’s less of that.
There’s less of that. I don’t think people are necessarily running to the store for the iPhone 11. But I think with Tesla, we really want to make products that people just love, that are heart-stopping.
That was five years ago.
My back still hurts.
I would definitely not do that again. Forty-five minutes of sumo wrestling has caused me five years of back pain, so ... I mean, it’s fair to say I would probably not have tweeted some of the things I tweeted, that was probably unwise. And probably not gotten into some of the online fights that I got into. I probably shouldn’t have attacked journalists, probably shouldn’t have done that.
Yes.
I’m sorry to <em>some</em> journalists.
Thank you, Kara. It was great to see you.
Always, it was great to see you.
I mean, why not?
I don’t know, there was some people in the studio who wanted to make a scooter, but I was like, “Uh, no.”
It lacks dignity.
Yes they do.
Have you tried driving one of those things? They —
They do not, you are laboring under an illusion.
This is an illusion.
It lacks dignity.
Electric bike, I think we might do an electric bike, yeah.
That was a pleasure, thank you. It was good to see you.
