Everyone dies.

No, honestly.

We're going to have so many vaccines, we will not know what to do with them. More vaccines than we can possibly use.

If you say, what are the silver linings of vaccine production, then the vaccine technology got turbocharged, that's for sure. There is a massive interest in the acceleration of vaccines. The mRNA vaccines in particular are very interesting because they can be potential cures for cancer. I think the work of BioNTech, CureVac, Moderna — the future of medicine is mRNA. You can cure basically anything with mRNA. It is just like a computer program, basically a synthetic virus. You can program it to do anything you want. You could turn into a butterfly practically.

It's a lot of money that's flowing to them. We're also much better with testing. Testing technology has improved dramatically.

That's interesting. We needed to improve for sure.

Read more: Tesla's new 'tabless' battery design eliminates the power pack's 'weakest link,' a top researcher says — and could cut production costs by 50%

Complacency is never wise.

Our approach is probably going to be to execute independently. But we can either manufacture or license some of our technology to companies like BMW. We're trying to be as pure as possible here with respect to our goal, which is to accelerate the advent of sustainable energy. So, it's not about creating competitive walled gardens or anything like that. We're going to be making our Supercharger network available to other companies; we're going to offer licensing of Autopilot. They want to use our autonomy. And we can potentially do something with battery cells. And, you know, we're willing to license technology to help other companies do the right thing.

Traditional takeovers are tough because companies have their own culture. Maybe if a company said to us, "Please, we're interested in merging with Tesla," that would be considered. But we wouldn't want to launch a hostile takeover. We would consider it ourselves if they approached us and said they're interested in merging companies.

The incumbents were quite arrogant. Their words were not kind words.

Oh yeah.

We didn't take it too personally. But generally, when there's some new technology in an industry, that is how the incumbents react. It's natural. For us it was in the end a big motivation. At some point we did try to do some kind of joint ventures with Daimler and Toyota. However, we found that the enthusiasm of our partners was not big enough. So, we ended up winding down those partnerships and just stuck to building our own cars. I think that has changed a lot.

It's now clear that people want electric cars. They want sustainable transport. They want clean energy. This really tends to be somewhat of an age-related attitude. The younger somebody is, the more they care about the environment. And so, as time goes by, they grow older, and then they become the decision-makers. That's the normal way of the world.

There are about 2 billion cars and trucks active in the world, and that number is increasing. Internally we think, we would like to be changing 1% of the fleet in the global fleet per year. To really make a dent, we have got to be past the decimal point. So that would be about 20 million vehicles a year.

Read more: Tesla could follow a historic 2020 with a monumental 2021 by raising money, rolling out more vehicles, and expanding into China

Actually, it was when it was much lower than it currently is. I said that when it was around $800 a share, and that was before the split. We had a five-point split. The stock market is a strange thing. It's like having a manic depressive who's constantly telling you how much your company's worth. And sometimes they have a good day, and sometimes they have a bad day, but the company is basically the same. The public markets are crazy. So, do I think there's a good chance that Tesla's worth this in the future? Yes, possibly more. But it really depends on the probability that people think we will actually get to 20 million vehicles a year. And then also solar and stationary battery storage are a very important part of Tesla's future.

It's definitely not too late. We are seeing a significant movement towards electrification from VW. And a lot of the Chinese companies are very, very, very fast. I would guess the most competitive company for Tesla might be a company that was created in China. The market there is extremely competitive. They have some very good companies, and they work super hard. But at this point, all the major car companies, if not 80%, then 90%, have said they're moving quickly towards electrification.

I want to be clear. I'm definitely not trying to take anyone's steering wheel away from them. I'm just saying what will most likely occur, and I am certain about this, is that self-driving will become much safer than a human driver. Probably by a factor of 10. This means that the standard for allowing someone to drive their own car is probably going to become higher. Currently, getting a driver's license is relatively easy, because people need a car to get around. But often they crash their car, for various reasons, because they are drunk or distracted. Or there's a lot of texting while driving. So, the standard for being able to drive your own car in the future when autonomy is 10 times safer than human driving will become much more stringent. That's the most likely outcome.

There is a dangerous transition point. Where self-driving is good, but it occasionally has issues, because people maybe get too comfortable, and then they stop paying attention like they should. And then 99.9% of the time, it's good, 1 in 1,000 times it's not. And you really need more like six nines, like a 99.9999 sort of reliability.

I'm extremely confident that Tesla will have level five next year, extremely confident, 100%.

I don't control the timeline for approval.

Absolutely. I drive the alpha build of the latest, fully self-driving software for Tesla, and many times I can go through a very complicated series of intersections and narrow roads, without ever touching any of the controls. All the way to work and back.

In the US, it will be pretty quick to approve, particularly in certain states. Some countries, like perhaps Norway, will be very quick to approve. They've said that. The EU is where we actually have the most difficulty. It's quite challenging. And the committee only meets every six months, and then the agenda is decided six months before that. So, it's very difficult. Our biggest challenges for regulatory approval are in the EU. This is a case of too many cooks in the kitchen, maybe.

Actually, nickel is our biggest constraint.

We actually publish a sort of sustainability report. We insist, for all of our suppliers, that the materials are ethically sourced. And this is verified with the party organizations. So, I'm highly confident that no child labor is being used for any of our mining operations. If there is, and somebody can point that out, we will take immediate action. Besides that, cobalt is a very important economic resource for the Congo. People are really counting on this money.

I'm confident that, within the Earth's crust, there's plenty of material for electric vehicles. This is not going to be a fundamental constraint.

Unfortunately, we will exceed the budget. This is the nature of things.

Wow! Well, I sure hope that doesn't happen with us.

I'm personally very involved. Right now, I'm spending more time on the Giga Berlin than any other thing at Tesla. And actually, I'm spending a lot of time on just working through the permits.

Yeah, technically we have a temporary permit. So, it's a risk. But hopefully we will get the permanent permit soon. We have a good relationship with the permit office — they are working very hard. I do think that, at a high level, someone has to review the rules and regulations in Germany. Actually, it would be very important from a policy standpoint to have a rule-removal committee or some organization, some entity that reexamines the rules to say these no longer apply, these should be changed. Something like that would be really helpful for the whole country.

The regulators themselves are the ones pressing for the permits, and they're simply executing the rules that they have been given. So, it needs to be at a high level, I think at a political level. Some of these rules are like somebody made them maybe 20, 30, 40 years ago. Maybe they're still good, maybe they're not. And if no one's looking at them, then every year we just get more rules and regulations and laws. And eventually you won't be able to do anything.

First of all, it was important for Tesla to have a significant production and engineering presence in Europe. So, you know, it doesn't make sense from an efficiency standpoint to build cars in California and ship them halfway around the world.

It's also not good for the environment to be transporting cars for such a long distance. So, for efficiency and environmental reasons, it makes sense to build the cars where the customers are reasonably close. And then obviously, we need one in Europe. You at least want to have a factory there, and I think it's also about engineering and design. And I guess I also had a personal preference for the Greater Berlin area, because Berlin's a lot of fun. And there's a lot of talent in Germany, for sure. A lot of my good friends are German. I like going to Berlin.

I've got to go somewhere. And, obviously, Munich would be a good choice, but that's kind of BMW's home territory: Bavarian Motor Works, so that sounds OK. But we're up here, basically in Prussia, and I'm a big fan of history. And I like Frederick the Great, and he really was great and anyone who studies history knows he was great.

Yeah, Berlin has the best night clubs.

Well, I've set out to be a bit of a gypsy or something. I will definitely be spending quite a lot of time in Berlin, yeah.

No, I'm not really buying any places. I stay at a hotel sometimes.

I'm just going to be sleeping at the factory in one of the conference rooms.

Yeah.

That's my understanding, yeah. You've got to get a feel for the situation.

I sold my primary home.

It was done two months ago. It was actually bought by a guy in China. And then I sold the house I own across the road, which used to be owned by Gene Wilder. It's very much his personality, and I sold it below market to his nephew who grew up there. And then we're in the process of selling my other houses. I guess I'll rent a place somewhere.

In fact, I'll have basically almost no possessions with a monetary value, apart from the stock in the companies. So, if things are intense at work, I like just sleeping in the factory or the office. And I obviously need a place if my kids are there. So, I'll just rent a place or something. And a lot of the time it's just me, so I don't really need a big place.

Yes, essentially, I think that also. Like the reason that I am accumulating wealth, if you will, which is really just stock in Tesla and SpaceX. The only publicly traded stock I own is Tesla. That's it. If Tesla and SpaceX go bankrupt, I will go bankrupt personally. One-hundred percent. But I also think, why should I try to have stock anyway. Why do I have all this stuff? Going back to what I was saying earlier, I think it is important for humanity to become a spacefaring civilization and a multiplanet species. And it's going to take a lot of resources to build a city on Mars. I want to be able to contribute as much as possible to the city on Mars. That means just a lot of capital.

Yes, and I'm also just trying to make clear that I'm serious about this. And it's not about personal consumption. Because people will attack me and say, oh, he's got all these possessions. He's got all these houses. OK, now I don't have them anymore.

For the moment that's correct.

Absolutely. My friends all say, oh, man, there it goes with the kids again, saying we should have kids and so on. But a lot of my friends have no kids. No, maybe they have one. And I'm like, man, how are we going to keep humanity going if you don't have kids? A lot of countries have a negative replacement rate. You can't just solve it with immigration — that's not possible. So, if you believe in humanity at all, you've got to say, we need to make sure we have humans in the future. They don't come from nowhere.

A lot of people would say they have the impression that the Earth is overpopulated. This is totally false. And they're just basing this on their immediate impressions because they live in a dense city. Have you gone to the countryside or looked down from an airplane? What percentage of the time, if you dropped a cannonball, would it drop on somebody? Basically zero percent.

I'm not sure it's as many as possible — I can technically have a lot more. But yeah, I like kids. I'm trying to set a good example.

I had a very unhappy childhood. There were many years when I was very sad.

It was hell at school and hell at home.

It's important to know that South Africa is a very, very violent place. Violence is normal. And it's not unusual, so I'm not talking about just words.

I was almost beaten to death at one point. So, it was a close call. I was in hospital for a while. So anyway, this is not a rare story, frankly.

I was a pretty motivated kid. Even when I was very young, so I think it could have increased my motivation. But the thing that helped the most was that I just read a lot of books. Like every book I could get my hands on, especially sci-fi fantasy. I played Dungeons and Dragons as a kid, was very nerdy and read the "Monster Manual" backwards and forwards. But I think, if you had a difficult childhood, you can take two approaches to it. One is like, I'm going to get back on the world and be mean to people like they were mean to me, which is obviously not good. I took the other approach.

Because I read a lot of books.

I got a bit depressed actually reading Nietzsche. And Schopenhauer. Really not recommended for a 13-year-old.

They could be a little more upbeat. But then I read "The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy," which is really a book of philosophy that just seems like a silly comedy. And "The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy" sort of made the point that the universe has the answer. And that the difficult part, is asking questions.

What are the right questions to ask about the universe? And the conclusion I came to is that the more we can expand the scope and scale of consciousness, so that we're better able to ask questions about the answer, that is the universe. This is the right thing to do, I think. This is the thing to help understand what the hell is it all about. Why are we here? I mean, just step back for a second, what's the meaning of life? And that's not even the right question to ask. It's like, how did we get here? Where's it going? You know, all these things. So, we want to increase the scope and scale of consciousness so that we can try to figure out how to answer these questions, and what questions to ask.

Exactly.

You need to feel life. The sensory experience of life, you can't get too caught up in the cold calculus of the cortex. You need to feel it in the limbic system, ask yourself, what does your heart say? And then take a moment to appreciate the many good things in life.

Sure. What is laughter? This is a sign of a civilization going in the right way.

Did they seriously? Well, that's no fun at all.

Napoleon had a good sense of humor.

You know, nobody's perfect. Honestly, if you wanted to know someone, Napoleon would be a great guy.

Very few people like being alone.

Humans are naturally a very social creature. And maybe what is defined as alone is not necessarily alone. I mean, if you're really alone and maybe just have books, not even communication, I think that's what drives most people crazy. I mean, there's a reason why in prison, solitary confinement is considered a big punishment. You want to have friends and family and someone — you ideally want to be surrounded by people you love and who love you.

We need to be careful with the advent of AI. And who's using it, and who controls it, and is it going to be in the best interest of the people?

Well, sometimes when I look at everyone on their phone all the time, I wonder, who is the master of who?

Yes, people are constantly responding to things on their phone. They feel like they own the phone, but perhaps they should ask themselves whether the phone owns them. So, with every interaction we have, we're effectively training the sort of digital group mind. And I think it's perhaps less a question of whether AI is serving humanity or vice versa. Rather, there is a symbiosis. And hopefully, that symbiosis is one that mutually benefits digital and biological intelligence.

It's not far off.

It's important to have some kind of government oversight. And generally, we agree that there should be a regulatory authority, whenever there's something that is a risk to the public. There are the regulatory agencies for cars, or aircraft, or food, drugs, that kind of thing. And we all think, nobody wants to abolish the FAA — we want them to oversee the aircraft. We want someone checking and confirming the aircraft is safe, and that kind of thing. Same for cars. For food and pharmaceuticals. So, it seems that we should also have regulatory agencies with some kind of public oversight ensuring that the public good is being pursued with artificial intelligence.

Yes! I said jokingly that the slogan of the company was, "If you can't beat them, join them." So realistically, in the long term, we will not be able to beat the intelligence of computers. But perhaps we can achieve a happy symbiosis. And along the way, we can also cure a lot of diseases that are due to brain damage, either congenital or through an accident, or age, or whatever the case may be. So, if somebody has a stroke, or has epilepsy, or seizures, or clinical depression, or something like that, these are all things that can be improved with a brain device.

Read more: The Apple Car news is irrelevant to Tesla because Apple most likely wants to sell off Project Titan

No, there will still be privacy. It's not like they can just read your thoughts without your permission or anything. But what I do have to say is, the initial uses of Neuralink will for many years just be solving medical issues, serious brain or spinal issues. The first application we're looking at for Neuralink is to help people who are tetraplegics and quadriplegics and enable them to use their computer or phone easily just using their mind.

Sometimes people get mixed up between what is possible in the long term and what is likely in the near term. The near-term applications for a brain machine interface are really just solving very fundamental brain injury, brain- or spinal-injury issues. That sounds like it's really pretty much an unequivocal good. Then, as the devices get more advanced, in the long term, you could do conceptual and consensual telepathy.

Yes, absolutely.

First of all, my experience with the government of China is that they actually are very responsive to the people, in fact, possibly more responsive to the happiness of people than in the US. And when I meet with Chinese government officials, they're always very concerned about this. Are people going to be happy about a thing? Is this going to actually serve the benefit of the people? It seems ironic, but even though you have sort of a single-party system, they really actually seem to care a lot about the well-being of the people. In fact, they're maybe even more sensitive to public opinion than what I see in the US.

Google and DeepMind, which is one company, are by far the leaders in AI, the ones making the most progress. So, I'm not aware of who would even be a close second, maybe open AI. So, China's putting a lot of effort into AI. And they may be making progress. But I've not seen progress that is close to Google and DeepMind.

I'm not sure what Biden's policies are regarding China. Some aspects of what President Trump did concerning his insisting on equity with regard to tariffs makes sense. I don't necessarily agree with all of the methods that he put forward, but with the concept of, we need to fight for low and symmetric tariffs. That's what we should really be doing worldwide.

It has the potential to appear to improve democracy. We need to be a bit careful — democracy is not perfection.

Exactly. This is the nature of it, Churchill or somebody — Churchill has the greatest number of fake quotes attributed to him — said like, democracy is the worst of all the systems, except for the other ones.

I'm trying to use technology to maximize the probability that the future is good. And, at a foundational level, that means ensuring we have a future, which is why sustainable energy is so important for the future of Earth. And then becoming a spacefaring civilization and a multiplanet species is important for the future beyond Earth, to ensure, that in a worst-case situation, if there's a World War III or something like that, or global thermonuclear warfare, and maybe all civilization is destroyed on Earth, that at least it continues to exist somewhere else. And, the civilization on Mars that could end up being a stabilizing influence on Earth. But that, just fundamentally like the probability of consciousness as we know it, and life as we know it, lasting for a long time will be dramatically improved if we're a multiplanet species as a spacefaring civilization.

I would say probably the main descriptive thing that I think is accurate.

Yeah, it's like developing new technology to solve problems. Science is great for science. Science is discovering things about the universe that already existed, and engineering is about creating things that never existed. I think to create something new that, as far as we know, never existed in the universe before. That's great.

Yes, creating, problem-solving. You know, making life better and more interesting through technology, creating something that never existed in the universe.

You always have to be careful when things become like a professional sports team. If a team has been winning for too long, they get complacent, they get entitled. That's just how it goes. This is why you don't see the same team winning every championship all the time. It's hard and painful when people we know, when a team or group or location has been winning for too long, then it's inevitable that they start to get entitled. They start to take it for granted, and they can get complacent and a little bit full of themselves.

I don't think so. It doesn't feel like something is becoming like too much of a family. I've spent more than half my life in California. And where I'm spending most of my time now is actually in Texas. Because we've got the Giga Texas factory being built and the Starship program in South Texas. Except for Austin, I was just asking the team, where would you like to spend your time? Where are you willing to move to, because we have a critical mass of people who need to be willing to move to wherever we do a new Gigafactory. Or take our significant operation in the US. Austin was top of the list, so hence we ended up in Austin.

Language. Sure, we've got to communicate.

Writing was like having a hard drive, things could continue beyond the person. If you try to maintain everything with an oral history, it's very difficult.

Instant digital communication worldwide is really like humanity developing a nervous system. Whereas previously all communication was person-to-person, phone calls are still person-to-person, and mail was like a person carrying your letter to another person. And now with the internet we have instant access to all the world's knowledge.

The wheel. Well, actually, the thing that really matters is two wheels with an axle — that's the big invention. In ancient times, we easily figured out that a round thing rolls easier than a triangle, but putting two round things together with an axle is not immediately intuitive.

There are a lot of things that I don't have a great understanding of. I might have a good understanding of most technology. But I'm not sure I understand where humanity is collectively going. Are we going in a good direction? Or are we turning inward and just fighting amongst ourselves?

The biggest thing is that we are getting to a stage where perhaps our reach extends our grasp. We have all this super-advanced technology, but can we really handle it? This will be the test. This will be a filter for more human civilization: Can we handle the technology and not destroy ourselves? With all these advanced technologies, is it like giving a toddler a shotgun? We've got to make sure we handle this technology in a way that's good for the future. We're going to make sure we have kids so that they as humans continue to exist. We have to think what sort of actions we must take so that the future is good.

Most likely six years from now, possibly four years.

Probably in two or three years.

If you're going to be buried somewhere, it would be cool to be born on Earth and die on Mars — just not on impact.

It's not that Mars is a plan B — it's that we want to become a multiplanet species and a spacefaring civilization. Ultimately, with life throughout the solar system, and then beyond our solar system to other star systems. That I think is a future that is very exciting and inspiring, compared to one where we stay on Earth forever, until some eventual extinction event.

I mean, eventually the sun's just going to get bigger and evaporate the oceans. And so, at some point, we better do something. And I think urgency is important for making life multiplanetary, because this is the first time in the 4-1/2-billion-year history of Earth that it has been possible. And this window of opportunity could be open for a long time, and hopefully it is. But it might also be open for only a short time. And it's not necessarily that civilization will end, but our technology level could subside. It could be that we don't end with a bang, but with a whimper. And so, while it's still possible, I think we should take action. But Mars, to be clear, is not going to be some luxurious resort.

Mars is a real planet, so we can create a real civilization there. But in the beginning, it's a bit like Shackleton's ad for the Antarctic where he said, it's dangerous, you might die, it's going to be uncomfortable, it's going to be a long journey. Food probably won't be good. There's also this terrible terror, but it's going to be a great adventure, and be one of the most exciting things that ever happened, if you don't die. That would be my ad for Mars.

In the beginning, it's going to be very difficult because Mars does not have an oxygen atmosphere — it's got a carbon-dioxide atmosphere. You can, over time, convert carbon dioxide to oxygen. That's what happened with Earth. Earth instead of having oxygen, had CO2. The oxygen was mostly CO2, still a lot of nitrogen, and Mars has some nitrogen. So over time, we could go through this process that Earth went through with the CO2 and oxygen, with plants, and liquid oceans. I think it really needs to be warmed up. And in the beginning, we'll just be OK — we've got to create a little base, we've got to have the basics. We have to be able to grow food, and we'll need water. We've got to replenish the propellant for the rockets, because we need to send the rockets back so they can bring more people. Or those that perhaps don't want to stay on Mars have the option of returning to or visiting Earth. So, it's really about the need to get a lot of solar panels, propellant generation, food, all the basics.

Certainly the birth of the kids was extremely profound. And from a company standpoint, getting to orbit for the first time was very difficult. Yeah, very emotional. We had three failures before that. You know, I'm the chief engineer of SpaceX. So, it's really primarily my fault that we did not get to orbit. Could have done a better job. But fortunately the fourth one worked. And that's all we had money for at the time actually. Yeah, there was much that didn't work. We would have been bankrupt for sure. So, I was so stressed out, and that actually didn't feel like joy. I just felt a sense of relief.

When I was a kid, oddly, my father was like, Anglican, Church of England. I was sent to Anglican Sunday school, but then his partners in his engineering firm were Jewish, so I was sent to the Jewish preschool. It was also nearby, and it was a good school. So I'm singing "Hava Nagila" one day, Jesus the next day, and as a kid you're like, well I guess I will just sing along, you know. But I would say, from what I see, after reading all the religious documents. I do agree with some of the principles, like turn the other cheek. Basically, forgive people instead of an eye for an eye is a good principle. And love thy neighbor as thyself, I think is a good principle. But do I think all these stories are literally accurate? That seems unlikely.

I am, actually. I've liked techno music for a long time.

Simply one of the reasons. We have to have this great rave for the opening of Giga Berlin. Well, actually, we're going to start in the afternoon with sort of family music and everything, invite all the people that live in the region, have a vague sort of picnic, and then gradually get more hardcore as the night goes on. And then have a crazy rave till dawn, it's culturally necessary.

To be frank, I made that with some friends as kind of a joke. And, you know, I definitely credit my friend Mike who was helping with that song. It was meant to be just for fun.

Well, I have quite a lot. Let's see. You know, like, Boris Brejcha, he's pretty good. I feel like naming a few is always limiting.

Berghain is pretty good. I haven't been in a long time.

Sure. Sounds good. Swedish House Mafia is great. We will invite a lot of musicians for opening day and just have a fun party that has something for everyone, from families with little kids to young people. And so, there's no reason why the company has to be sort of corporate and boring. It can be fun. We want to make it fun.

Yeah, we're going to have a good time.