Well, I was born in South Africa, lived there until I was 17. Came to North America of my own accord, against my parent’s wishes. And was in Canada for a few years. I started school there which is where I met my wife.
Transferred down to the University of Pennsylvania and got a degree in physics, degree in business at Wharton. Came out to California with the intent of doing a PHD in the material science and physics [unintelligible] with an eye towards using that as an energy storage unit for electric vehicles.
I ended up deferring that graduate work to start a couple to start a couple of area companies, one of which people have heard about, such as Pay Pal.
Pay Pal is the leading internet payment mechanism. It’s probably like an American Express of the Twenty First Century.
Yeah you can. It’s hard to explain Pay Pal by analogy since it’s really a new sort of entity.
So, what that allows you to do is to send money to a business or person just by entering an email address. And the money easily transfers from your Pay Pal account to their Pay Pal account.
If you have money in Pay Pal account, it will do an internal transfer, almost like a bank transfer. If you don’t have money in your account, it’ll draw from your credit card or draw from your real world bank --
There were two other people involved but I was responsible for many of the core idea.
I had just sold my first internet company which -- internet software primarily for media companies, allowing it to publish and manage contents on the web. I had also some special functionality. We also had map and directions functionality, yellow pages functionality, white pages.
And it’s -- you know, when you went to a web site -- a web site like a Knight Ridder newspaper web site or New York Times you wouldn’t know you would actually be using our software, but not know -- you wouldn’t that you were using our software, but you would be.
So, any way, we sold that to Compaq for about 300 million dollars in cash in -- early in 99. And after I left the company and started what was originally called X.com which later became Pay Pal.
SpaceX is developing markets for taking satellites and people to orbit and beyond. So, we’ve finished development of and done a few test launches in our small rocket, which is the Falcon One, which you see part of over here.
And we have in development a big rocket which is the Falcon 9. And that’s intended to service the space station, as well as deliver very large satellites to orbit.
Yes, I’m the chief designer in the company.
Yes.
Yeah, I think it is a good combination.
Yes.
Yes.
I wouldn’t say -- I mean, I wouldn’t say it’s a personal interest of mine to go to Mars, but really my interest in going to Mars is from the standpoint of the extension of life beyond earth. To the best of my knowledge life exists only on earth. And this is the first time in the 4 billion year history of earth that it’s possible to extend life to another planet.
No, no, I think in the case of the sort of flippant remark by Hillary was -- it’s sort of a noteworthy achievement to have climbed the highest mountain on earth and all that [unintelligible] in the same way people want to break records of various kinds around the world, sailing journeys and that sort of thing.
But this is not in that category, this is really much thicker, deeper philosophical underpinings better financed to why I think it’s important to extend life beyond earth.
It goes to the nature of importance. How do you decide that one thing is important versus another. And the layers of history -- I guess a good way to distinguish whether something is important or not.
If you look at the history of the earth upon a geological grand scale -- what are the really important milestones in the history of life itself. Forget about the parochial concerns of humanity.
Then you say, well, certainly there was the advent of single cell life, multi cellular life, plants versus animals --
That’s actually a very [unintelligible] humanity. That’s actually [unintelligible] factor (speaking over each other) Those are only important in the context of humanity.
I’m talking about things that are important in the context of life itself. So, you know, there’s life extending -- life emerging from the oceans and moving up to land.
There’s the advent of mammals, the devopment of consciousness. These are -- there’s maybe ten or twelve things that fed on to that scale.
And then within a subset of man’s achievements would be things like fire, wheel, the internet and that sort of thing.
I think the universe can be explained by the laws of physics and does not require any supreme being --
Yes.
Probably both. I mean, yes, space exploration [unintelligible] it’s both a government and a private endeavor.
Yes.
Correct. We started with no government help. The government is a customer but we also have main commercial customers as well.
Well, we have -- assuming NASA is probably our single biggest customer -- the Defense Department, particularly DARPA is a customer.
But then we also have McDonald Detweiler, a Canadian company, a customer we recently signed up for this commercial geo [unintelligible] satellite launch contract with Avanti which is a -- the UK commercial satellite operator.
I think the advantage, because it’s very hard for those large companies to track the best engineers. They’re really not great environments to work in.
So -- you know we’ve been very successful in recruiting the top people out of those organizations. And they’re just really inefficient -- cost inefficient.
As a company grows and you get to be able to use division of labor and specialization of labor, far too many person increases.
But once you reach a certain point where the communication inefficiency overwhelms the specialization of labor, then you actually get a declining – per employee
About a 100 percent a year. But that won’t continue in the future. We may have 50 percent in the future --
I think it’s pretty far off yeah. I think you know we’ll probably stabilize at maybe a thousand or two thousand. I think Boeing is like 100 thousand people.
Yes.
Sure -- and so I’m chairman and principal founder of Tesla, which -- Tesla motors, which is making a revolutionary electric sports car. It’s all electric, it has almost 250 miles range. It has acceleration which is less than four seconds to 60 miles an hour. And it’s about 100 thousand dollars, so it’s a compelling price for car of that performance.
Well, the sports car will probably remain at that price point. But Tesla is developing a lower cost car, which is a sedan, it’s five passenger, four door sedan, quite large and it’s intended to be something that could be a family sedan or it can replace a small -- smallish SUV. It’s going to be in the 50 thousand dollar range. We’ll be producing 10 to 20 thousand of these a year.
Then we’ve got Model which will be after that and that’ll be hopefully in the 30 to 35 thousand dollar range and we’ve got 100 to 200 thousand [unintelligible] volume.
So, we try to do higher and higher volume and they become more and more affordable over time. The Tesla Roadster, the sports car, is really the beachhead of the technology. It’s the introductory product, allows us to refine the technology and make more affordable over time.
Yes, actually I think the long term electric cars will be more economically competitive than the -- than the gasoline car. Also, the price of gasoline is going to rise over time given finite supplies and rapidly increasing demand, particularly from China and India, as we’ve seen.
But in addition to the price of gas going up, the cost of electric transportation is going to go down, drive in part by companies like Tesla.
Sure -- well, first of all it should be said that the efficiency of an electric car -- the electric car by Tesla is so great that if you were to take a gallon of oil and you would put power -- use that oil in an electric power station and take the efficiency of that power station -- subtract the transmission losses [unintelligible] of the electric power lines -- subtract the charging losses. And it said how many miles do you get out of that gallon of oil versus refine that gallon of oil into gasoline and run an equivalent sized car, using that gallon of gasoline -- what you’ll find is the electric car gives you at least twice as much mileage.
So, that’s called the well to wheel efficiency. We do the fully [unintelligible] efficiency of a particular mode of transport. What it comes down to -- the reason -- the primary reason for that is that a gasoline engine is typically around 17 or 18 percent efficient.
So, the energy in that gallon of gasoline -- the [unintelligible] [speaking over each other]
Basically it’s roughly one part emission, four parts heat of the energy in that gallon of gasoline.
But in comparison, the electric motor is a far more efficient device. The energy efficiency of electric motors is on the order of 90 percent. So that even after you take all those charging losses and all those other things into account, just have a fundamentally more efficient engine -- motor in the case of [unintelligible]
But to answer your original question of what will charge -- we need the energy to charge the batteries for the cars and are we not simply extending the tail pipe to the power switch, so it’s a long tailpipe to the power station essentially.
And the answer to that is -- well, first of all, electricity is the universal currency. You can generate electricity in many ways, including renewable ways such as solar power, wind, geothermal -- and in ways which are less damaging to the environment such as nuclear and -- and then even if you would generate energy with hydrocarbons such as coal or oil or natural gas, the energy efficiency of electric transportation is so much greater that you can still be twice as better off than you would otherwise be.
Right. It’s true we’ve not built new nuclear plants in a couple decades. Although what most people don’t realize is that the existing nuclear plants have been massively upgraded. [Laughter]
So, our percentage of nuclear power has actually not declined as much -- [speaking over each other]
Yeah, we should build more nuclear power plants. I think that’s a better way to generate energy than certainly a coal power plant or a natural gas power plant.
Burning hydrocarbons -- I think people now recognize is a pretty bad thing. You know over time there’s a certain limit to the CO2 capacity of the atmosphere and the oceans.
Yes.
Yes, I did.
No, no -- yes, a legal one. [Laughter]
Yes, that’s true.
Well, I mean, I think the United States is the greatest country that’s ever existed on earth. And I think that it will be difficult to argue on objective grounds that it is not. I think the facts really point in that direction. It’s the greatest force for good of any country that’s ever been.
There would not be democracy in the world if not for the United States. We’re obviously falling in the recent few occasions -- maybe three separate occasions in the Twentieth Century -- democracy would have fallen with World War 1, World War 2 and the Cold War, but for the United States.
Yeah, absolutely. I think it would be a mistake to say the United States is perfect, it certainly is not. There have been many foolish things the United States has done and bad things the United States has done.
But when historians look at these things on balance and measure the good with the bad -- and I think if you do that and -- on a rational basis and make a fair assessment -- I think it’s hard to [unintelligible] that the United States -- is there anything better [speaking over each other]
And -- you know I wasn’t born in America -- I got here as fast as I could.
Yeah. Yeah. I totally agree. And I do agree with assimilation. I mean, it doesn’t mean erasing someone’s you know -- the culture that someone came from.
Because I think what actually happens is that the whole melting pot things with the cultures that people came from get added to the greater mix and actually enriches the diversity of the country more than if people simply retain their -- you know their original country’s culture unmodified, which seems like an odd thing to me.
Because if you want the unmodified culture of your original country, then why would you move.
Sure absolutely.
Well, the X Prize Foundation is an organization that creates these prizes for things that -- things are important -- for which there should be an incentive to get to happen.
And, so, there are actually many X Prizes. There’s the subliminal X Prize which was won by [unintelligible], sponsored by Paul Allen.
Well, it varies. So in the case of the subliminal X Prize there were many sponsors. In fact I was one of the sponsors. But the main sponsor was [unintelligible] Ansari. So, it’s called Ansari X Prize. [unintelligible] Ansari, actually, so the Ansari family sponsored several X Prizes.
But there are others. For example, there’s a genomics X Prize for low cost decoding of the human genome and that’s sponsored by Craig Ventor [phonetic].
Oh, yeah.
Up quite dramatically.
Sure, well, of course SpaceX revenue have been growing about 150 to 200 percent a year. For Tesla -- well Tesla is kind of a -- Tesla will only start shipping cars next month and, so, real actually recognized revenue would only occur. So, the percentage would be ridiculously gigantic.
So, part of it would [unintelligible] revenues percentage standpoint. But suffice it to say that next year Tesla will probably do 60 or 70 million dollars in revenue.
Yes.
It’s not profitable yet.
None of my major ventures are public.
Correct. I suspect over time all three of my most significant ventures will become public companies, SpaceX, Tesla and Solar City.
Yeah go public -- provides more capital to expand, it provides some measure of liquidity for investors in the company and it’s also helpful as a currency for acquiring other companies.
Well, I wouldn’t say -- I said public is a -- going public is a consequence of you know a certain maturity level of the company down the road. But I wouldn’t -- I wouldn’t go public as a goal. It’s not really a goal, it’s --
Absolutely.
Absolutely
Among other things, certainly one of the reasons.
[Laughs] Do I want to be as big as Microsoft.
Well, the size of the company market cap isn’t really a metric by which I would judge my own achievement.
I’m much more interested in the case of Tesla, Solar City, making impact on climate change and CO2 production and energy independence for those two companies and the case of SpaceX -- really primarily interested in making progress towards helping [unintelligible] become a space [unintelligible] civilization and ultimately extending life beyond earth.
As a result, I expect that the companies will be valuable. Because it would be hard I think to accomplish those objectives and not be a valuable company.
Yeah I agree absolutely.
My heroes. Well, Winston Churchill, Thomas Edison -- I mean, I could go on with this long list, I suppose.
Oh, you mean [unintelligible]
[Laughter] Well, for people that [unintelligible] contemporary -- I mean, I think Larry and Sergey at Google. I suppose they’re my heroes -- they’re also my Friends.
Yes.

Who’s alive today?
Who do I admire?
[pause] You know I’m not a huge admirer of politicians in general.
Yeah I wouldn’t say I’m a huge admirer of anyone in particular on the political stage today. I mean, historically I would say Winston Churchill -- on of the greats; you know maybe Teddy Roosevelt, Disraeli.
Yeah, absolutely. I think Reagan was great. Actually I think he was -- he should be up there among one of the great -- as one of the greater [unintelligible] Presidents.
Probably certainly above average as American Presidents go, not quite as good as a lot of people would make him out to be. I think if you look at the actual track record on things like Rwanda, should have taken action.

You know, George Bush is like Reagan without the brains.
Reagan was a smart man.
I think the current President Bush does the right thing, in his view. But the really -- the big difference President Bush -- current Bush -- and Reagan -- is that Reagan actually had strong intellectual underpinnings for his decisive actions. He read -- he read a lot of books. He thought deeply about the subjects.
And particularly prior to the stroke, his writings were actually quite smart. He was a smart guy--
