Hey Elon here. Can you hear me?

laughs This is wild. It’s just my butt talking.

Yeah, that's me.

No. I'm just trying to look sexy and in these tight pants with the. You now fabulous red in the gold.

Sorry, I got a small barkly dog.

All right. Is it working? laught

All right.

Okay. Oh by the way can you let in Vlad from Robinhood?

Okay.

Thank you.

I think we'll get to when will we get the first people to Mars? I think we have a decent shot of doing that in about I'd say like... I call it five years, something like that.

So Earth to Mars sync up every 26 months. That's when we're in this kind of the, it's roughly the same quadrant of the solar system and where we can do an interplanetary transfer. And so we had one about six months ago, so about a year and a half there'll have be another one. So figure, I don't know five and a half years.

We've got to make a starship fly get it, gets go to orbit and back repeatedly. I mean, the essential elements are you need a fully reusable, but like, um... You need a fully and rapidly reusable rock.. orbital rocket. This is the Holy Grail of rocketry. So no one has ever succeeded in creating a fully reusable rocket and it can't just be fully reusable.

It needs to be rapidly reusable. So it doesn't take like several months of refirbish-ment between flights. It needs to be much like aircraft where the cost of an air flight is the biggest component of that is fuel. And you can't just be throwing rockets away every time.

And then you need to have orbital refilling, so where you can end the ship up to orbit then send another ship up dock with a transport propellant so that you can load up to being almost full propellant and then go to Mars.
And if you've got a large, fully rapidly reusable rocket with orbital refilling that uses, high efficiency, low cost propellant then you can go to Mars and then..

And then one other one last thing is on Mars too you need local propellant production. So you take CO2 out of the atmosphere combine it with the water ice - H2O to create CH4 methane and oxygen.

And f you have those elements - life can become multi-planetary and we can have a self-sustaining city on Mars, which I think is one of the most important things. We could possibly do for ensuring the long-term existence of conscious consciousness.

Sure, so the... originally, I had an existential crisis when I was a kid trying to figure out what's the meaning of life? Why are we here? What's the point of it all? Is it all meaningless? I got quite depressed actually and sad about it. And then the thing that kind of broke me out of it was reading Douglas Adams is a Hitchhiker's Guide to the galaxy.

Where he essentially pointed out that the universe is the answer and really the hard part is figuring out what questions to ask about the answer that is the universe.

I'm trying to make fun of the fact that the answer is the , easy part, but the questions are the hard part. So in order for us to gain a better understanding of what questions to ask or to understand. What it's all about. We have to increase the scope and scale of consciousness so that we're better able to figure out which questions to ask them and answer them. So the longer, the broader in scope larger in scale, that consciousness is the more likely we are to be able to ask these questions and figure out what that's going on.

Why are we here to answer the fundamental questions? And I think there's arguably a great filter that we face with you know, will we've become a multi-class species or not. We’ll be surprised if out there in our galaxy and others, there are a whole bunch of... Dead one planet civilizations that prosper.. prospered for a while, they might've prospered for millions of years, but then gradually the civilization collapsed for reasons external or internal.

And that was that all civilization go through go through an arc where they both, they grow up in technology complexity, but then they don't keep going up. They, over time they... hey decline they fall and this has happened obviously with if you're a student of history with many civilizations in the past. You can look at ancient Egypt, 5,000 years ago, there was the great part of Giza, but then the people living there forgot how to build pyramids after a while and then they forgot how to read hieroglyphics.

There's obviously, Kevin's famous book about the decline and fall of the Roman Empire and how they had advanced technology in terms of roads, aqueducts plumbing and so forth and then they basically forgot about it .
The ancients Sumerians, Babylonians - all these things have been all gone through a similar arc which suggests that most likely we will go through such ourselves and we'll be arguably less resilient to recovery because of globalization.

So I think, for the first time in the four and a half billion year history of Earth that has been possible to extend life beyond Earth and make life multi-planetary. And this window of opportunity may be open for a long time. I hope it is, or it may be open for a short time. And I think it would be wise for us to assume that it's open for a short time.

I'm an optimist, not a pessimist, but I, you have to say there's some chance it's only open for a short time and we should take advantage of this brief window of opening, where we can transfer, transfer life, transport life to make life multi-planetary and humanity is essentially the agent of life in this process.

And I think we almost have an obligation to ensure that the creatures of Earth continue even if there was a calamity on Earth, which as I said, could be man-made or it could be some natural calamity as if you look at the fossil record there's, there are many mass extinctions.

Yeah, I think all those things need to happen just as they happen in the US and happen in every country. And I would not presume to prescribe what should happen there., I think the important part is just that we get people there and we get the equipment necessary to establish a self-sustaining civilization at least one self-sustaining city.

And I think that the key threshold of when we would pass the great filter of this particular great filter is Mars sufficiently self sustaining, such that if the ships stop coming from Earth, for any reason - it could be, something massive or something banal. I mean, civilization on Earth could end with a bang or a whimper.

And, but by the way, if the ship stopped coming from Mars, does Mars die out or not? Um, and it must only has to be missing one little ingredients, like the equivalent of vitamin C and it will survive for a while, but it will not, but it will eventually die out. So it's kind of getting a stated on us to pass that critical threshold where it is self-sustaining.

And are we able to do that before some calamity or a gradual declining civilization occurs that prevents the specialist ships from going there. That's the key threshold, but it, in a more pithy way is like does it city on Mars become self-sustaining, which comes first a self sustaining city on Mars or World War Three?

I think Mars well go.. Let's start off being very tiny, just like a tiny little outpost. And by the way, it's going to be very dangerous. Sometimes people think: "Oh, is this like some escape hatch for people?" I'm like: No, it will be dangerous, hard work. It's going to be you're out there on the frontier. There're way far more ways to die there than there are on Earth. And transmit of hard work. But it will be, I think fun and a great adventure. But it will not be a luxurious thing that is for sure, not for quite some time to go. We've got a bull propellant plant.

We've got a bold get solar power going, get the the food production going start creating the necessities. I, you know, iron, we need an iron ore refinery. We need, all of the sort of fundamentals of industry in order to make sure that Mars is a, self-sustaining planet. I mean over time, like this would take a while, but you could terraform the planet and make it Earth-like mostly by just warming it up. So, yeah.

Yeah, probably will. I think so.

Yeah, absolutely. But the the the fact that it's... You can only go to Mars every two years and that's a six months, six months journey. Although I think we can over time, get that potentially as low as one month. But still you can't go to Mars when Earth is on the other side of the Sun from Mars. Like you know times where... You know Mars is literally on other side of the Sun.. You can't get.. No matter what you do... So that time gap would mean hat there'd be essentially a new group of people arriving roughly every two years.

I don't know. I think interesting when people would probably traced they're like.. Yeah, I came on, you know this particular Earth-Mars synchronization event. I don't know it, but like I said, the important thing is like that we have established Mars as a self-sustaining civilization.
And that we've done whatever we can to ensure the long-term continuance of consciousness, as we know it. Because, so as far as we can tell we're the only. The light of consciousness, which is a delicate little candle in the dark.

It's only here on Earth. I mean, it might be other place. other places and there's arguments that it's likely to be other places, which honestly, we have seen no sign of it. And I'm pretty sure that I would have know about it. And I am, I've seen nothing to indicate that there was any alien civilization whatsoever. I'd be the first to jump on that in a second, but I've seen no such evidence

Yeah... I'm trying to be strict in the scientific sense of the word, saying "I've seen no, no, not a single piece of conclusive evidence". So that doesn't mean there aren't aliens.

I'm just literally saying I've seen nothing that could not be explained by other means. And where the probable explanation by other means is much more likely than this alien technology. Hmm. And for people to say like their's sightings of aliens. I'm like, listen, man the the resolution of the picture needs to be at least like 7-11 ATM. Good. Okay.

Steven and Marc laughing

We can't have that fuzzy Loch Ness monster bullshit, It's come on, we've got like a 500 megapixel camera. What are you talking about? Where do you find that thing? It's gotta be, it's gotta be at least like iPhone 6 level. Isn't the, I don't know.

Yeah, I think if we're talking about, say the third or fourth set of landings on Mars... I think I'd probably be, I'd be okay with that... Although I've called them so far and none of them say they want to go, so. They may change their minds, but they're currently there. They're not chomping at the bit to go to Mars.

Um I mean it's a play on words from a Dune: "Who controls the spice - controls the universe". And then if memes are spice then it's memes. Yeah, there's a little bit of truth to it in that. Like how do you what is it that influences the Zeitgeist? Like how do things become interesting to people. And a meme's like actually a complex form of communication. That’s that's like a picture says a thousand words and maybe a memes says 10,000 words.

It's a complex picture with a bunch of meaning in it. And it can be it's, aspirationally funny. Uh it's, I dunno, I love memes. I think they can be very insightful. And throughout history, I think the symbolism in general has powerfully affected people.

Yeah. Yeah, I know. Yeah, I know. I guess probably if you go back to my early, very early tweets.. Or technically I was on Twitter, I think very in the very early days, when there were only like maybe 10,000, less than 10,000 users. But then like people were just like tweeting, like what kind of latte they had at the university street Starbucks. And I was like: " I don't need to know this", so then I deleted my Twitter account and then and then a fake person, who got my Twitter account and tweeted for a few years...

And then my friend Billy said: «Hey, you really should be on Twitter, so you can speak directly to people». And So I was like okay: I guess I’ll you know, regain my Twitter account". And my early tweets are pretty racy. And pretty you know because I was reading this biography of Catherine the Great. So it's sort of things, yeah, things went crazy from there.

everything laught Some people think: "Oh, he's he's gone crazy on Twitter. I'm like: "No, I started crazy on Twitter"

Sorry. What was that again?

Um I don't really follow memes.

I make some of them and then some of them are sent to me. I have some pretty kick-ass meme dealers.

There will be my friend Mike is a good meme dealer and Clara as well. And ,Jake now and quite, a few, quite a few others actually. I fortunately am the lucky recipients of very interesting memes.

Sure. Um the long-term. Okay. So the Neuralink stems from a concern I had where I was trying to figure out, even in a benign AI scenario, how do we at least go along for the ride? So for those following AI closely it's obviously improving dramatically.

If you see like look, say GPT-1 versus, GPT-2 versus, GPT, super GPT-3, and just how radically that's improved. Um and just, there’s deep mindset.
I think they've run out of games to win at basically. And there's just, and look, I still look at Tesla it's an important thing to note. I should make is like Tesla actually has, I think one of the strongest AI teams in the world, but it's AI team focused on real world usability.

So just really solving a vision perception and control with the AI. Um but even in a benign scenario for AI where let's say the AI is just really wants to be super nice to us and make us happy. But we'll ho.. how do we stay relevant and have meaning, and at least go along for the ride.

That's in the good scenario. And then in terms of avoiding the bad scenario to the degree, we can couple a collective human will to the outcome of artificial intelligence and what's developed in that way. I think that'll probably be a better scenario than if we're unable to effectively couple collective human will to that outcome. So the final.. Okay, sorry, but this is getting kind of esoteric..

Yeah. Okay. So people are already a cyborg and then in that. You already have a tertiary digital layer. You've got your sort of limbic system, which is your primitive drives and desires and responses. And then you've got your cortex, which is like long-term planning and thinking. Those are two biological lawyers. And then there's a tertiary layer, third layer. Which is digital and you already have that in the form of your phones and computers and all your applications.

You're far more powerful, than a human would be without those cognitive enhancements, but the bandwidth between your cortex and your digital tertiary layer is very slow and, in fact, with the advent of phones it got even slower. So if you're thumbing like. Say what's the bit rate of a thumb of a pair of thumb on a phone. It's very low, I mean, let's be super generous and say it's a 100 bits per second.

Um computers can communicate at trillions of bits per second. So it's, at a certain point, computer gets smart enough. It's like the computers, just like trying to talk to a tree. Trees do sort of talk but they talk so slow that we don't notice. Um so we need to improve the bandwidth.
And with the direct neural interface, we can improve the bandwidth, between your cortex and your digital tertiary layer by many orders of magnitude. I'd say probably at least a 1000 or maybe 10,000 or more. And we could also spend a lot more time thinking about interesting things, as opposed to taking complex thought structures, compressing them down into words, which is, which will also gain a very low bit rate and then having someone else receive those words, decompress them and then send words back at you.
So a huge amount about brain power spent in compression-decompression and we could be instead spending it on deeper concepts. And so, if you had a Neuralink, if two people had a Neuralink, you could do a conceptual telepathy where you have a complex series of concepts, and you can just transfer them directly uncompressed to the other the person. This would massively improve the quality of communication and the speed of it. So yeah, then there and other sort of pretty wild things that could be done, like you could probably safe state in the brain. And so if you were to die, you could, your state could be re..,uh, returned in form of another human body or a robot body. Okay. This is getting like really, It's weird sci-fi stuff here.

Yeah, exactly. I think you could decide that you want to be a robot or a person or whatever. Um and you wouldn't be exactly the same. There'd be a little lost in transfer, but you could also say, it's arguably true that when you wake up in the morning, you're not exactly the same as yesterday.

Or the «you» of a month ago is not the same as the «you» of today. I mean a bunch of brain cells have died some memories, some memories have faded some have strengthened There are new memories. So anyway, the point is you wouldn't be. You could, there could be something analogous to a video game, like a saved game situation, where you are able to re.. resume and upload your last state.

Yeah. Like in Altered Carbon. Maybe lose a few memories but mostly be you, so now that's the long-term stuff. In the short-term stuff for Neuralink the idea would really just be to address brain injuries or spinal injuries and make up for whatever lost capacity somebody has with with a chip.. Implanted chip.

The first thing that we're going after is a a wireless implanted chip that would enable someone who is a quadriplegic.. or tetraplegic or quadriplegic to control a computer, or mouse, or their phone, or really any device just use just by thinking. And this obviously would be a massive enabler, make life way easier for them.

There have been primitive versions of this device, one done with like wire sticking out of your head, but it doesn't work all the time and you can't take it home with you. So just having, basically you think, like in simplistic terms, I'd say it's like a Fitbit in your skull with tiny wires that go to your brain. So, Fitbit in your skull with tiny wires.

So somebody who's listening is good at designing, like Fitbits, Apple watches, phones, computers, various kinds. Then actually.. They would be a great fit for Neuralink, your like , so yeah… We'll probably be releasing some new videos showing progress maybe in a month or so.

And cause we've already got like a monkey with a wireless implant in their skull and the tiny wires who can play video games using his mind.
It does not look like an unhappy monkey and you can't even see where the neural implant was put in, except that he's got like a slight, like dark mohawk. But other than that, yeah, he's not uncomfortable and he doesn't look weird. Um so we're, you know Oh, and like when the USDA person came through and inspected our facilities, our monkey facilities, she said it was like the nicest monkey facilities she's ever seen in her entire career, just FYI. We went the extra mile for the monkeys

That would be a hell of a trip for monkey. But, one of the things we're trying to figure... Can we have the monkeys play mind pong with each other? Yeah, that would be pretty cool.

Oh, thanks, yeah, well it's a great team at Neuralink and they're making good progress. And like I said, but I want to feel like the early applications will really just be for, people who've had a serious brain injury like where it's like the value of the implant would be enormous. Because obviously the early implants will come with some non-trivial risk. And so it's gonna be like: "Okay, is, does the good far outweigh the bad?" And then, that would be a candidate for some of the initial surgeries with full disclosure of like, little risks and everything, and one of the things really paying close attention to is the ability to remove the implant. So it's it's not if somebody doesn't want it or it's not working, we can take it out and then we can re-implant another one. So we've tested implantation removal and re-implantation safe and it works great. Yes.

So... The best way to..

My observation is... My kids were mostly educated by YouTube and Reddit, um , and I guess, classmates and, um, I guess their lessons as well, but judging by the amount of time they spent online, it seemed like most of their education is actually coming from online.

I think generally with education, you want to make it as interesting and exciting as possible, what are all the things like say a good video game does to keep someone engaged and interested. If there can get, if kids can be super engaged video games, is weird for them to be super engaged in education as well.

Like one of the things that's, I think very fundamental is to explain the "Why?" of things .Like, so we're teaching this, but we need, we're going to explain: "Why we're teaching you this?" and "Why it is relevant?". We've evolved to forget things that are irrelevant or have low relevance probability.

It makes sense, otherwise we'd remember all sorts of nonsense things that weren't very important to our future. So relevance is established clearly, then people will have a hard time remembering. We're a memory advice, nature, but because it's there appears to be irrelevant.
It might be irrelevant, but if it's not explained to them, they won't know. And if you're trying to say problem-solving some sort of engaging narrative for the problem-solving... It's far better to say: Okay we're going to teach you how an engine works by taking apart an engine, uh and they're putting it back together. And then let's find out what tools are needed for.
Yeah, in order to take this engine apart and put it back together." It’s: «Okay, we need screwdrivers and wrenches and allen keys, and we need a winch and a bunch of other things». And then you understand the relevance and, this is much better than having say a course on wrenches or a course on screwdrivers.

You just start with a problem and say: "What tools I need to solve this problem?". That establishes relevance and gives a compelling narrative thread.

Yeah, exactly, it’s the business, if you , you have a narrative thread or like: "Why is it established relevance there?"

And there's a story to it and then you say if turn off that bulb without the wrench... and then let's see, how can we make this engine better? What do we need to do? Okay let's calculate... you know, if it gasoline engine, you know, what’s the how do you get to a higher RPM or a better compression ratio?"

I'm using like outdated analogy of engines, but you could say: "For electric motor, um what steps would you need to take to get higher torque? Higher power out of this electric motor?" And then you can explain it's obvious why, things like Maxwell's equations become necessary in that situation.

I don't know. I might be getting too much credit here, so for me, these things I've done have been... Because I felt a strong compulsion to do them, so it's not like nobody was pushing me to do it, but I felt strong compulsion to do them

I would say.. There are pretty long sections of my life that have been very painful and difficult. And I'm not sure if people would want to do that, you know?

if somebody wants to be me or do the things that I've done. I would say most probably you're mistaken. You do not want to do that. You'd have to have some kind of rage demon in your skull that... You got to get it done. There's no.. It's like when people ask me: "What encouraging words do you have for entrepreneurs who want to do a startup?"

Well, my response is - if you need encouraging woods, don't do a startup.
Yeah quote, my friend Billy, during a startup, was like eating glass and staring into the abyss for a long time.

Well yeah, I gotta watch what I stay here because this.. Some of these things can really move them, move the market.

So, first of all, I should say many friends of mine have tried to convince me to get involved in Bitcoin for a long time, like from where it first just popped.You know, from my Billy, he actually had Bitcoin cake that had a big sort of Bitcoin symbol on it. And he fed me a slice of Bitcoin cake in 2013.
So, I mean clearly, I should have at least bought some Bitcoins eight years ago. What more do you people even do, you know? Like Jesus. Talk about being late to the party? So I was a little slow on the uptake there. my apologies. But I think about a fair bit I do at this point think Bitcoin is a good thing. So I am a supporter of Bitcoin. You know, like I said- I'm late to the party, but I'm a supporter of Bitcoin. I think Bitcoin is really on the verge of getting broad acceptance by conventional finance people, you know?
I don't have a strong opinion on other cryptocurrencies. I could occasionally make jokes about Dogecoin, but there are really just meant to be jokes. But Dogecoin was made as a joke to make fun of cryptocurrencies. But fate loves irony.

The most ironic outcome is most likely or as, like I say, the most entertaining outcome is often the most likely and arguably the most entertaining outcome. And the most ironic outcome would be that Dogecoin becomes the currency of Earth in the future.

In fact, I made a joke about Bitcoin and my account got locked.

Okay, so you're asking me about the future of batteries and self-driving?

Um I mean, our goal with Tesla is, and has been from the beginning to accelerate the advent of sustainable energy. So in order to do that, we've got to make a lot of cars. We've got to make them increasingly affordable. Our rough target is - we want to be able to eventually make 20 million cars a year. And the reason for that is the 2 billion active cars and trucks on the road. I figure, you're not really moving the needle, unless you're changing 1% of the existing fleet. So that's roughly how we came up with 20 million cars, and trucks per year. That's very important to, to accelerate delve into sustainable energy. And of course, we've got stationary battery packs and solar making a lot of progress on that front. So yeah we're going to try to grow car production as fast as possible, and that the primary limiting factor there is battery cell production.

So, we're getting as much as possible from suppliers, but even that is not enough, so we're actually going to be building our battery cells ourselves. But it's important to emphasize that our suppliers who a great, we've got great suppliers that we're not trying to put them out of business.
We want them to increase their rate as well. So, panasonic LG and CATL. But to accelerate sustainable energy further, we're making our own cells and, we're pretty excited about that. I think you expect possibly an acceleration of compound annual growth at least aspirationally. That's our goal.
And then that combined that with autonomy. It's a very powerful story because once you have autonomy of self-driving cars, you massively increased the utility of any given car. A typical car is driven about, 12 hours a week. Depending on the situation, you're where you live, it's like maybe an hour and a half a day or something like that or in LA it might be two hours a day. So roughly 12 hours a week. And there's 168 hours in a week in a seven day week, so most likely, cars that are autonomous could maybe do a third of the hours in the week or something like that. So, maybe they do, I don't know 60 hours a week of usage instead of 12.

So you got basically a 5x increase in asset utilization there and far less need for parking lots, parking garages and that kind of thing. This is in itself is good for the environment, because you need fewer cars to get the same thing done. We would need fewer parking garages and places just to keep cars when they're not in use, because they're just being in use a lot more. The net of having a lot of cars times automation or time self-driving, I think is at the heart of why. A lot of investors think Tesla is worth what it is. They're giving us a lot of credit for future execution, but I think the trend is quite positive.

And I'd like to once again say if anyone is interested in practical AI where the rubber hit the road please join Tesla's autopilot / AI team. I think people are not quite appreciate that Tesla has some of the most advanced AI in the world, both on the software side and on the hardware side. On the hardware side, we've obviously got our inference computer, which I think is still the best inference computer out there. Even though it's been going for a couple of years and we're building Dojo, which will be the most powerful training computer, because it's got to process vast amounts of video training data... Bringing the day of self-driving sooner translates directly to lives saved and injuries avoided because about a million of people die every year in car accidents. And about 10 million per year have serious injuries.

So that's the sooner, the better and a lot of lives will be saved and people's lives made better.

Yeah, I mean, sometimes I'm just talking smack, you know?

Yep. It's tiny new outside. I confess. First of all, I'm not fundamentally against LIDAR on all things because for the Space X Dragon that talks with space station we actually developed and built our own LIDAR for docking with the space station, so obviously if I hated LIDAR, we would not have done that and this is well. Before this was like 10 years ago. We started doing that. I don't have some sort of weird like, antagonism into LIDAR. However for driving on real-world roads you have to solve vision. For basically understanding objects with passive optical, photons then making sense of those objects, so we need like vision perception what this objects mean, what they are going to do, what is the likely path of travel and then control.

AI so the way we're doing it is by running a bunch of neural nets in our head. So we've got to run a bunch of neural nets to do the same thing in the car and at the point at which you've sold passive optical, and this is better passive optical than a human has because you've got eight cameras, three of which point directly forward two are diagonallt forward and two that are diagonally rear and one rear.

So the way we do it right now is we have all eight cameras synchronized you've got eight frames collected simultaneously while moving towards. And have in fact mostly moved towards , uh, video training.

Having eight surround cameras it's kind of a surreal thing to see, because people really people have two eyes, but really more like one eye because two eyes kind of combine. Anyway, the neural net needs to move to full video training inference, surround video training, surround video inference, and then it will be superhuman, no question about it.

Because people don't have eyes on the back of their head, a human for all intents purposes has like one camera on a slow gimbal and that is often distracted and maybe sort of drunk or you know busy changing the radio or they fall asleep or, there's all sorts of things that go wrong there's no question that you can get be super human with just cameras.

I think if one is going to go with sort of active photon generation, I would recommend something in the occlusion penetrating wavelengths like radar, roughly four millimeter radar or something like that would be better if you're going to really delve into the arena of actual photon generation.

Like I guess, I wake up and see if there are any emergencies by, on text or email and often they are. I mean, a ton of what I deal with is not actually fun or interesting, it's like chore, so I've tried really hard not to do my chores, but then if I don't do my chores, things go to hell.

Okay. Yeah, that’s pretty much how it goes these days. I do enjoy the in-person meetings more than email, in fact, I haven't, I think I'm getting slight like negative, like limbic reaction to email. It's killing me. Texts are way better to deal with and then in-person meetings are much better even zoom meetings or whatever better than email, anything's better on email frankly. So anyway I'll have a bunch of meetings. I'll write email, write texts, especially if it's like an email to the group saying hey, we need to change direction, do the following things, and let me know if you think otherwise, but otherwise we've got to do these things and get our act together on this area or that area.

And then, yeah, like a bunch of meetings. Most of my meetings are engineering and design, but of course we have to deal with finance and, sales and other things that are necessary for a company to function. I quite a lot of context switching, so he sent me the meme of like "fear is not the mind killer, context switching is the mind killer", which I totally agree with context switching is a real barrier, so I'm just trying to do less context switchig, so maybe focus on one thing for an hour and then another thing for another hour.

It's really hard to context switch between Space X and Tesla, and all the things that are going on in Space X to Tesla and then Neuralink, Boring Company which was fortunately pretty low bandwidth, they don't take a high level of CPU load because they're smaller and there's personal stuff and of course memes, you know..

I don't have a lot of open space, it's generally back-to-back meetings and it's insane, I mean my days are like insane torrents of information. I mean, sometimes I want to like audit what I do for a day and it's insane. I don't recommend it.

I mean, I was thinking like man, how long can I keep this up because I don't want my brain to explode and the meetings that are scheduled are not like nice to have, they're like these meetings that are essential. Okay. It's pretty intense. I was thinking maybe I should take a week off or something, like that to clear my mind. Like, I know there is a bunch of people writing books on Tesla and Space X and is pretty hard for them to get it right because they just weren't there and maybe I should write like book of my experiences with all the foolish mistakes I've done and like you know some advice for others that might be helpful.

I only did that if there's was like a crisis situation and actually when the team is being asked to really work super hard, I gotta be right there with them and they got to see it, you know, seeing is believing and so if I'm just sleeping in the middle of the factory floor and, you know, I sort of go to sleep at four in the morning and waking up like four hours later, they literally see me, it's not hidden or anything and it's like okay, CEO's willing me to take that level of playing then they'll do it too.

Most of the time I did not sleep in the conference room because people could not see me in the conference room so I slept on the floor outside the conference room..

It's hard. People know, they don't know, seeing is believing. So I mostly was just sleep on the floor, outside the conference room so they could see that I was there, that's an even more advanced level. Yeah. That's woven hurt.

I always wake up and smell like oil and iron filings, it was rough. Yeah. But I was asking people to really go all out, I can't expect them to go out if I'm not doing the same thing.

They probably don't but people at the factory do, they saw it themselves and that's what important..

Well I'm definitely have no plans to start get another thing, my head will definitely explode.

I think there are still tremendous opportunities in tunneling, for five years people ask me in what do I see opportunities and I'd say tunneling because nobody did anything, so then actually initially as a joke created the boring company just and we did a test tunnel in LA and then still people didn't believe us.

And then, so we just did our first operational tunnel in Vegas. The world really needs tunnels all major cities have traffic and tunnels can massively improve people's quality of life by making it easy to travel from one place to another city and then that can be further expanded to long distance travel, where if you just draw a vacuum on the tunnel then you can go extremely fast, faster than a plane or a high-speed rail.

So I'd really still recommend someone else please to start a tunelling company. Then there's RNA or MRN'a basically synthetic viruses which puts a good effect with the Biointech and moderna but I think people don't quite appreciate that that what's actually going on is the digitization of medicine.

So it's where you can just literally create an RNA or DNA sequence like a computer progrma and then, encapsulate that in a liquid shell, so it looks like a tasty treat for yourselves and you can literally do anything, this is absolutely the future of medicine.

You could probably figure out how to turn someone into a literal butterfly, your cells are biological computers, they execute just like old-school computer, where you feed it a tape or punch card, your cells which are tiny biological computers they will do whatever they punch card says, that was probably a big eye opener last year for 2020 like just the understanding the potential of RNA and then just super randomly Tesla actually is making a fairly advanced RNA sort of micro fab or something, we're open to making it for other companies as well.

It's super random. About four years ago we required a company in Germany, they're very good at automation, they're called "Groman" and they're they're in Southern Germany. At that time, the acquisition they said: "Look, we're willing to be acquired but there's just a couple of projects that we think of, even though they're not related to automotive, and we really like to continue, if you don't mind".

And the two projects were: one is this like tiny chip analyzer with tiny wires for analyzing chips that Intel needs for making CPU’s and then another one was a Biotech thing, that basically has there's three parts: there's a DNA multiplier, an RNA multiplier and something that puts them the lipid shell on the RNA sequence we’re on like version three of it now, and they said, could they keep going, so if you keep it under 10 percent of resources - no problem. You can keep going and then it turns out it may actually be useful.

I don't have good insight into the situation as it stands, but I think relaxing the requirements there are too many requirements of who can get the vaccine. The vaccine - it's really important for elderly or those who have a compromised immune system or is otherwise at risk And I, would, really just saying first come - first serve, show up here, like use CVS and Walgreens, which give out the flu vaccine every year and say, okay, just show up here. And especially for the moderna and biotech, vaccines, which are quite temperature sensitive, they can only be defrosted from the deep freeze briefly, and then they must be used or they lose their effectiveness.

This is because the in my understanding RNA sequences they use are not stable, those sequences want to revert to something else, because they are not stable. They must be frozen at a very low temperature or they will simply revert to a lower energy state RNA sequence.

That's my understanding of it. So instead of worrying about whether the exact right person going to get the vaccine, just accept that maybe some people who shouldn't get the vaccine will get it, but we will still get a lot more vaccines out there. And let's not worry about the details here.
Let's just get it to as many people as possible, as quickly as possible and for sure we should not worry about the second dose quite yet, just give everyone the first dose. I suspect that the community grounded by the first dose is very significant and we've got, the second dose is like three or four weeks later.

So we'll have that we've got plenty of time to think about the second dose just worry about the first dose and first come - first served and don't worry about like accidentally giving them, doing the damn thing to someone who maybe didn't deserve it that will happen a little bit.

So that's my recommendation on that front and there's is going to be a an avalanche of vaccine coming. I think US may have ordered something like at 900 million doses. And the combination of that, this is going to be a, we're going to have some, when it's so much a COVID vaccine, I guarantee you it will be thrown away later this year.

Johnson Johnson vaccine just got approved which is more conventional vaccine but it's a single shot room temperature and then there are more and more vaccines that are going to get approved.

I know because I know the Tesla machine, it can make a bazillion doses super fast. For those who are concerned about the vaccine you should expect an exponential increase in vaccine availability and then combined with that, we are starting to approach some degree of herd immunity. People who have contracted the virus and recovered so which is actually better than getting vaccine because the antibody reaction is better than if you got the vaccine. So you could go on and on about it. But overall I think, optimistic message that there will be lots of vaccines and I would really encourage people to take the vaccine, I am not an anti-vaxxer, to be clear, I'm pro-vaxxer.

FIrst of all, I should say, I love California and I've lived more than half of my life in California, I built my companies here, I came came in Silicon Valley as a summer intern to work on energy storage technology for electric vehicles, way back in 92. I think it was 92-93 there’s a little company, called Pinnacle Research I got to Silicon Valley as soon as I could and and then at Stanford I was gonna be working on sort of advanced capacitors producing electric vehicles as grad studies and ended up putting that on hold for the internet.

I also tried to get a job at Netscape by the way. I wouldn't say I did a very good job of trying to get a job Netscape, but I was like, I was convinced that the internet would be the future, essentially the humanity communicated by osmosis until then, but with the internet it would be like humanity acquiring a nervous system and becoming much more of a super organism, so I was like, okay I could do a PhD at Stanford on advanced capacitors for use in electric vehicles which may or may not be successful, like I could get the PhD, but would it be useful or not uncertain.

Or I could be part of building the internet which was associated like do a PhD and watch the internet get both right in front of me, or put gradstudies on hold and try to help build the Internet in some way and I mean you're basically the only internet company. I send my resume And I was like, can you give me a feedback.

And then, uh, I tried hanging out in the lobby, but I was too shy to speak to anyone and I was like, man, what a sharlatan I am sitting in this lobby and then I just started writing software myself because I was like okay, well, I'll just write software myself.

And I actually wrote the first maps and directions on the internet. I'm not sure how many people are aware of that, but first maps directions, yellow pages and white pages, I wrote it personally, it was just me on my computer. And when we started our first company, we only had one computer, so the website only worked during the day because I was coding at night. And then the server ran during the day, that was quite an adventure.
That's for sure

Wow, thanks man.

Well, I just finished watching "The last kingdom", which I think is a great piece of, mostly accurate historical drama, there's "Cobra Kai", which is if you grew up in it's so good, it's such a sick burn, I mean they just like to turn the knife constantly.

Maybe I should start watching that, I think there we're like some sort of things about like having a shortage of water or something ike that it didn't make any scientific sense at first. So I was like come on this is dumb, so then I stopped watching it but it sounds like maybe I should keep watching it.

I would say that would be a good outcome because it means that humanity actually made it out there, as long as they don't mallead each other. Besides the "Expense"

Well, do you want to hear the real story from Vlad from Robinhood about what happened this week with GameStop?

Okay. You need to like, let him somehow click on a button, so he can talk.

Yeah. "Hitchhiker's guide to the galaxy" by Douglas Adams is in fact a book of philosophy, disguised as a silly humor book and if you read it from the standpoint of "wow, this is an interesting book". Philosophy, this is quite insightful. As i mentioned it really hits the point of the answer is easy once you properly can formulate the question. I mean I like the fact that the ship is powered by infinite improbability, it's called the heart of gold.

He also makes fun of bureaucracy, in fact, Earth essentially gets destroyed by a sort of clerical error or they basically decide that they need to have an interstellar highway and the Earth's in the way. They post the fact that Earth needs to get destroyed for this interstellar highway, but of course,it's posted on alien bulletin board that no one on Earth can access.
So they're surprised when people on Earth aren't happy about this. "It's like it was posted on the board. What do you mean, what board?" Some of the things in Douglas Sanders were like the babble fish, where you put the fish in your ear, that automatically translates, we kind of have that already, so yeah, I mean the future is coming fast.

All right, Vlad. What really happened? Give us the inside scoop.

All right, it's full of beans, man. What happened last week? Why do you stop here? Why can't people buy the Gamestop shares? The people demand an answer and they want to know the details and the truth…

Sounds like this is an unprecedented increase in demand for capital. What formula did they use to calculate that?

Basically discretionary, meaning like it's just their opinion?

Everyone wants to know, did something shady go down here. It’s seems weird that you'd get a sudden $10 billion demand..

Sorry. How much? Yeah..

Okay, 3 billion just suddenly out of nowhere.

Who controls this organization, this clearing house?

All right, so, it sounds like this organization calls you up and they basically have a gun to your head: either, either hand over this money or else... And cause basically what people are wondering is - did you sell your clients down the river or did you have no choice?

And if you had no choice, that's understandable, but then we got to find out why you had no choice and who are these people that are saying you have no choice?

Will it be any limits?

All right. I guess people really just want to know, if you had no choice ? Then you had no choice, then it's kinda situation. That's understandable. But then whoever put that gun to your head should be willing to answer to the public.

To what degree are you beholden to Citadel? Like basically if Citadel is unhappy, then what happens?

But wouldn't they have a strong say in who got put in charge of that organization since it's an industry consortium, not a government consortium, or not a government regulatory agency?

All right. I guess we'll see what happens with future actions. Hopefully that insightful or at least a little bit entertaining. Are you not entertained?

Yeah, that's great. This is awesome. I didn't even know existed a week ago, so. It seems cool
